=== 1. Enum Types ===
Well hello friends. Welcome back. So in this section we're going to learn the enum type in Java. So an enum type is a special data type that allows a variable to be a predefined set of constants okay. So first we'll just have a little chat about what the enum type actually is, how it's defined and how to use it. Then we'll develop a sample project using that enum type because you'll know it so well. Okay. Let's get started. The enum keyword was introduced in Java five. Enum is a special type, so it's a list of predefined constants. The main purpose of enum is to define our own data types. Now generally the field names of the enum type are in uppercase letters, as they are always constants, so the enum keyword is used to create an enum type. So in our example we define the color enum type and the color has some constant values such as yellow, green, blue, orange, and black. The test code color call equals Color.blue assigns a value to the variable color of the enum type color. The variable call can take any of the five defined values, but in this case it's set to blue. So the Java enum type has some very useful key points. Let me bring your attention to some of them and we'll have a look at them right here. So first up we can define a constructor in Java. Enum enum constants are implicitly static and final enum can be used in switch case like string. Int data types. So equality operator and equals method. These are used to compare enum constants. But guess what? We cannot create an instance of enum by using the new operator. In other words, we cannot invoke an enum constructor ourselves. So that's something you got to remember. Also, all enums implicitly extend Java.lang. Enum because a class can only extend one parent. The Java language does not support multiple inheritance of state, and therefore an enum cannot extend anything else. But you knew that already, right? Okay, so let's go ahead and make some examples with enum. And you'll be able to get really, really used to it. You'll love it by the end. Now, first off, I just want to close the previous Java project and create a new Java project. The project name will be enum type. I'll click the create button. So now I want to create a new package and new enum class in this project. I'll specify the package name enum type. And I'll create an enum in this package. So this time I will select the enum option not class remember and we will name this enum colors in the enum color. We'll define three constant colors red, yellow and green, and uppercase letters. So let's create a main test class. Right click on the enum type package and select New Class. Specify the class name as color test. So now we need to take inputs from the user by using the scanner class. Okay. So we show a message to enter a color by using the print method. So why don't we declare a variable input color with the string type and assign the next method of the scanner class to this variable? Now we'll create the enum instance that's named color and assign the value of method of enum color to this variable. So now we need to use the value of method to convert the string to the enum type. The value of method takes a parameter that's named input color. And we can change the input color text to uppercase letters by using the two uppercase method. And now we can use the switch case statement. In this part, the conditional switch expression is the instance of enum color. The first case value is red and we display the. You entered red in the print method. And we add the break keyword. So the second case value is yellow. And we can display you entered yellow in the print method. And of course we'll add the break keyword again. The third case value is green. So we display the you entered green in the print method. And of course we add the break keyword again. Okay so let's run this code. So we enter red in lower case letters. And it's automatically converted to uppercase letters. And look at that. The you entered red message is displayed. Now if we don't use the two uppercase method, we will get an exception because we defined the enum constants as uppercase letters. All right. So let's run the code again. And let's enter green this time in uppercase letters. The EU entered green message is displayed. Okay so let's run the code again and let's enter Java. Uh oh. There it is. We got the exception. And the exception name is illegal argument exception. So the exception message is no enum type constant in enum color. Because Java is obviously not defined. In our enum class, we defined only three enum constants red, yellow, and green of course. So how do you want to handle this exception? By using a try catch block, you say. Good idea. So when a catch block, we will write illegalargumentexception. With the object e. And then we display. Please enter enum constant type. Red. Yellow. Green in the print method. So let's run that code again and let's enter Java in lowercase letters for color. There we go. The catch block handles the exception and our message is displayed in the console. Okay so let's run the code again. And this time let's enter Java all in uppercase letters. Look at that. Our message is also displayed proper. So this is good. Then in this program if we enter accept red yellow and green values because that's what we define, then the illegal argument exception is thrown. So now you know what the enum type is and how to use it. All right we'll take a little break, but we'll come back and develop a sample project in the next video. All right. See you then.

=== 2. Traffic Lights Program With Enum ===
Well hello my friends. Welcome back. So in this video we're going to develop another project with Enum type. And we'll be able to understand it better if we don't. But it's just fun doing projects in Java don't you think? Yeah. So in this project we're going to develop a traffic light application by using the enum type. So with this we'll be able to cover how values can be assigned to enums in this project. Okay. Let's have some fun huh. So I'll close the previous project and create a new Java project. We'll name the project enum Traffic Light. Don't change any of the other options and click the create button. Now I'll create a package in this project. And I'll specify the package name to be Traffic Light. And now I'll create an enum in this package. And we'll name this enum Traffic light. So we can assign some custom values to enums. Let's define three constant colors in the traffic light enum class. First red with stop as its value. Second yellow with weight as the value and. Last green with the go value. So these definitions will also call the enum constructor with one string parameter. So why don't we declare a variable action with the string type to get the values of enums. So we'll need to create a constructor called Trafficlight that takes one parameter action with a string type. We assign the parameter variable action to variable action of this enum. So at this point I want to just show you something really important. You got to note that we define the constructor as private here, because the enum constructors can only be private or default access modifier. In fact, why don't we just try to change the private access modifier to public and you'll see the compilation error that we get. But just hover your mouse on traffic light and you see that word gets underlined with that red. And here the error message says modifier public not allowed. All right. So I'll change the modifier to private again. Now if you notice private is actually redundant. So we can just delete it. And as a result you should only use the private modifier with enum constructor or just leave it as default. Now let's just create the getter method of the variable action. Now let's create a main test class. So right click on the traffic light package and select New Class. Specify the class name as Traffic Light test. And let's create an enum instance Dense array and its name is going to be lights. And we'll assign enum values to this array. So we use the values method of the enum class to get an array of enum values. So for that we will use the for each loop to access enum constants and their values. So in for parentheses, we declare an enum instance light with the traffic light type and we will add colon and lights array. Now we want to iterate each element in the lights light array and store it in the light instance. So we will want to access the name and the action of the enum constants by using this instance. So in the print method first we'll call the name method to get the name of the enum constant. And then secondly, we'll call the get action method to get the value of the enum constant. So the name method is predefined in the enum type. And we can also use the two string method instead of this method. You can play around with that later. Okay so now that it's set up let's run the code. And look at that. You see the results right there in console. The light is red and its action is stop, light is yellow and its action is wait, light is green and its action is go. So why don't we do this? Let's change the name method with the two string method. So there is a little difference between the name method and the string method of the enum class. So I want to show that to you. The name method is final so it cannot be overridden. But the two string method is public so it can be overridden. But really don't worry, on this level you really can ignore this difference. So let's just run the code again and you see the same results. All right so there's a few things you need to know about the enum type. Why don't we take a short break here. And I'll see you next time.
