=== 1. Section Overview ===
All right. Hello there, my friends. Welcome back. So far we have completed the necessary installations, created our first Java project. We've even written our very first Java program and learned the working process of a Java program. Now we can start learning the Java programming language. So in this section we're going to start learning the basics of Java. First off we'll learn the basic input and output in Java. Next we'll learn about the comments in Java. And then you'll be ready to tackle variables in the Java programming language. After that we'll learn the data types. Then we can learn the numbers in Java such as binary, octal and hexadecimal numbers. And then lastly we'll learn the conversion between data types. So what are you doing sitting there? Let's get started.

=== 2. Basic Output in Java ===
Hello, friends. How's it going? Most excellent. I'll tell you this now before continuing with some of these other topics I do want to walk through with you just how to display an output on the console screen in Java. So for this video we're going to take care of all of it step by step. Now you've actually got three different ways to display output in Java. The first method would be system.out.print. The second method is the system dot out dot print l n, and the last method would be system.out.print f. All right. So let's have a look at these features in detail starting with print. So we've got the print method right and it prints strings inside of the quotes. It belongs to the print stream class. The print stream class. Well this is a class in the Java.io package. And this allows us to send output to the console. Now let's break down the println method. So this println method prints a string inside quote similar to the print method. It's an overloaded method of the print string class. And if you're going right now. Oh of course I know what overload is. It's okay. Don't even worry about it. Overload might be a little foreign to you at the moment, but we're going to talk about the concept of overload as well as override in really good detail coming up in some of the next videos. Right now we're just giving you the general overview. We'll continue then. Println. So this method accepts the string as a parameter. However, after printing the cursor goes to the beginning of the next line. Now it's starting to make more sense, right? So this feature is actually the key difference between print and println. So after printing the output to the console, if we want the cursor to stay on the same line. Yeah. Just go ahead and use that print method. But if you wanted to move to the next line use the println method. So the ln suffix represents the line. So you can just read it as print line if you want to. But yeah we've also got this print f method. The print f method provides string formatting right. So it's used when we want to print the formatted string to the console using the specified format string and arguments. So it's also an overloaded method of the Printstream class. The method behaves the same as the invocation of the format method of the string class, and actually will almost never use this method throughout the course, but you really do need to know that it exists, right? And for this reason, we just are dropping it here to include the printf method so you know the difference. Okay, so that's enough talk about outputs. Why don't we just go ahead and move on to IntelliJ and do some practice exercises. So I'll close the previous project and let's just create a new one. So this will be a Java project. And let's name this project Exercise now will not change the file location of this project. Also, I won't create a git repo. The build system will be IntelliJ. The JDK version will be 21. Again, I'm not going to be using any sample code. Let's create this Java project by clicking the create button. All right. So now you see the project has been created. I just want to create a new package in the src folder. Let the name of the package be input output. Now I'll create a new Java class in this package. Now the class name be basic output. Yeah. So the Java class is also created right. And lastly I'll create the main method. All right. So in the main method we're going to do some practice about the print methods. First I'll use the println method I'll print the Java programming is fun by using the print line method. Now there's actually an easy way to call the print method in IntelliJ. If you type s out, well, you get to see some options offered by IntelliJ. I'll press the enter key on the keyboard while the S out option is selected. So the println method is created automatically. Excellent. So this is known as code completion right. It allows us to quickly complete statements in our code. So we can use this combination in all other parts of the program such as variables, methods, classes. You'll see how useful it is. Now I'll write whatever I want to appear on the console screen between double quotes. So what was the message again? Let's just say Java programming is fun. So here the println is a method that displays the string inside quotes. Let's run the code so we can run the code using this play icon as well. And hopefully you can see the Java programming is fun. Expression is now printed on the console I see it. Okay, now I'll just duplicate this print line method once. To duplicate, just use the command and D keys for Mac control and D keys for windows. By the way, you can actually look at the IDE settings to learn all of the fine shortcuts. In fact, why don't we just open up the settings? Let's open up the Keymap section. You notice here the shortcuts are divided into sections. For example, let's have a look at the editor shortcut and let's find the shortcut combination for duplicate. And as you can see command D are the shortcuts we can use to duplicate a line. So now we can go back to where we left off. Also we can concatenate the strings by using the plus operator. So the first string will be Java programming and plus operator. And the second string will be is fun. Now let's run that code. Okay. So you see the result is the same right. Now why don't we have a look at the use of the print method by itself. So we'll copy this and paste it this line here four times. Now I want to change the message. This will be just Java and space. This will be programming and a space. This will be, is and a space. And last up this will be fun. So also I'll use the print method instead of the last two println methods. Okay, so now we can see the difference between these two methods much easier. So you see we now have two println methods and two print methods. The first two methods are the println method. The last two methods are the print method. Now let's have a look on the console screen and run the code. So you're looking at the results here. Right after println the cursor moves to the next line. But then after just the print method, the cursor remains on the same line. All right. So there you know the difference. But I do want to show you one more thing here. Let's have a look at that printf method. Then we'll wrap it up because I promised you I'd show you the difference. So here it is. I want to define three variables first. Oh, but you know what? You haven't yet learned what a variable is and how it's defined. So we're going to actually talk about variables in more detail in the coming videos. For now just follow along. I told you Java programming is fun. And the first variable is just a and the type of a will be the integer. We'll let the value of A be four. The second variable will be b. Its value will be six. The last variable will be c and its value will be the sum of a and b. So a plus b. Okay. Now we can use the printf method and you'll see what's what. So I'll write in. Here's out and press enter. This is the println method. So now I'll convert it to the printf method. And in the printf method we use the percentage sign with the d character. And this represents a decimal integer. So now we can write the variables that is a, b and c. This means handling variables in percent d format that is in decimal format. Now let's run the code and show the output. Now do you notice the cursor did not move to the next line because the previous command was the print command? The result we printed with the printf method was printed on the same line. Now let's examine that output as the output. The sum of four and six is written as ten, right? So you can basically think of the printf method as the format method of the string class. So in order to make that a little clearer let's just do another example and then we'll wrap it up. Okay. So I just want to create one more printf method. And this time I will use percent s is the format to format a simple string. We're just using the percent S combination. So as a value I'll just write hello in lowercase. This format will print the word hello to the console in uppercase. Yeah. So let's run the application and see. And there you see now the word hello written in uppercase in the console. All right so that's it. I do want to point out one more thing though. If you use the printf method your cursor will stay on the same line just like the print method. It's not going to jump to the next line. Yeah. Let's test it out. So let's just create one more print method. So this will print the word world to our console. Now let's run the application again. And there you see the word world is printed right after. Hello. So this means that the printf method also keeps the cursor on the same line. So what should we do to make the cursor go to the next line then? If we're really wanting to use this printf method we can use a couple of different things for this. First off, you could use an empty println method after the printf method. Yeah, so it's thanks to this line, the cursor will automatically jump to the next line. But the second one would be to add percent n here. So it's thanks to this the cursor will automatically jump to the next line. Yeah. Let's test it out. Now you see the word world is now printed on the next line. All right my friends, there's a few of those Java output commands. We're going to take a short break here. I do want to see in the next video though.

=== 3. Basic Input in Java ===
All right. Hello my friends. Welcome back. So in the previous video we talked about basic Java output. In this video let's talk about basic input in Java. Naturally there are several ways to get input from the user in Java. In this section we're going to learn to get input by using the scanner class. Now in order to use the scanner class, we got to first import the scanner class by using import Java.util.scanner. And again, don't worry if you're new to this. Of course it's great. Don't worry if you don't understand it at first. We're going to learn way more about classes and how to import them in the coming videos. I just want to show you a few things so that you'll know where we're going. Next, we will create an object of the scanner class. Then the next int method of the scanner class is used to get integer input from the user, and then we assign this input to a variable. And finally we display the number on the screen by the println method. In fact, I know you're ready to move on to IntelliJ. And why don't we do some examples by using the scanner class in Exercise project, right click on the input output package. Select New Java class. Specify the class name as basic input. And I'll add the main method. All right let's look at the Java input. So we're going to use a scanner class for getting input from the user in Java, right? Firstly, we need to import the scanner class. So just to brief you about this import process, there's basically many packages that are prepared in Java. There are various classes in these packages as well. And in order to use these classes in our own project, for instance, we need to declare this here with the import keyword. So this is the meaning of the import process right? So let's create an object from the scanner class. And I'm just typing scanner with the first letter capitalized. And you notice when you do type scanner the editor offers some options. Pretty good huh. Now if you don't see suggestions then you can always press Ctrl space for windows, command space for Mac, and you'll be able to view the editors suggestions. Now if we select the scanner class of the Java.util package from here and then press enter. This class will be imported automatically. But first let me just call the scanner class without importing it. So I want to show you the error that will happen if we don't import it. So moving on. The name of the object that I will create from the scanner class can be the input. Input equals new scanner. I write system dot n inside the parentheses. To create an object of the scanner class. We usually pass the predefined object system dot n that represents a standard input stream. We may pass an object of class file if we want to read input from a file. Okay, if you place the mouse pointer on the scanner word, see how the editor says it cannot resolve the scanner symbol, and that means we cannot import this class as a solution. We can just choose the import class and that will import the scanner class. But you got to notice when we import the scanner class, the phrase import java.util.scanner gets added just below the package name. Aha. All right let's move along. So here we show a message to the user to enter a number by using the print line method. The message can be please enter a number. And then we'll declare a variable number with integer type int number equal. And assign the next int method of scanner class to this number. So after the equal sign I write input and put a dot. Now did you notice there are many different scanner methods such as next next line next. float. Next double. So, according to the type of data you want to receive from the user, you should choose the appropriate method from here. For example, we now ask the user to enter an integer value. Therefore, we will use the next int method. Let's also show the value of the number variable by using the print line method. And finally, we should close the scanner object by using the close method. And this is a process done for system efficiency. You'll understand that better in the Java I o section later on. All right let's go ahead and run the code. So on the console screen I enter ten and it shows you entered ten. There's actually no need to assign the next int method to a new variable We can use directly the input dot next int method in the print method. So let's go ahead and run the code. I will enter a number and press enter. And you can see the result is the same. So also we can get string inputs from the user. So a string is a series of characters. So let's change the code for string input. We use the next method of scanner. We declare a variable text and assign the next method of scanner class to this text. And this time the message can be. Please enter a text. Okay, good. Let's run that code again. On the console screen, I will enter. Hello. And it shows you entered. Hello. All right. And again, there's no need to assign the next method to a new variable. We can use directly the Input.next method in the print method. Okay. So let's run the code again. I'll type in some text and press enter. And now you can see the result is the same. But before I let you go I want to show you something else. So let's run the application once again. This time I'm just typing Hello World on the console screen and I will leave a space between the words. Now notice when you press enter, only the word hello is printed on the console screen, not the word world, because the next method takes only the first argument, ignoring any other arguments after this space. So if we're asking the user to enter a value consisting of more than one word. Well, this time we actually should be using the next line method of the scanner class instead of just next. All right. So now let's change the next method to next line. Now let's run the application once more. And I'm typing Hello World on the console screen. And what happens when I press enter. Good good good. So there you see, this time we were able to print both these words hello and world to the console. There you have it my friends. That is basic input operation in Java. Now keep in mind that we have used the scanner class here to get console input from the user, and to use the scanner class, we needed to import it. Excellent. Let's go ahead and take a short break here and I'll see you in the next video.

=== 4. Comments in Java ===
Well, how's it going everybody. Welcome back. Now in the previous video we talked about basic input in Java. So in this video we're going to have a look at comments in Java. So what do you suppose comments in Java are. Why do we use them. Well stay tuned. You'll find out if you don't know. So the Java comments are actually the statements in a program that are not executed by the compiler and interpreter. Okay. So the comments can be used to provide information or even explanations about any statement, variable, method or class. But you got to note here that comments should contain only relevant information to read and understand the program. It's not for your grocery or shopping list or anyway, writing comments is actually a really good practice and will help others to understand the code that you're writing. It will also help us when we return to our code later and wonder what the heck were we thinking? So these comments can also be used to hide program code in some cases, you see, because that way they'll be completely ignored by Java compilers. In fact, I want to tell you about three different comments in Java. First one is the single line comment. Second is multi-line comment, but the last one is the documentation comment. Now a single line comment is used to comment on only one line. It starts with the double slash symbol. The compiler then ignores everything from the double slash to the end of the line. It's actually the easiest comment to type out, right? Which brings us to the multi-line comment. And this is used to comment on. Yeah multiple lines of code. It starts with slash asterisk and ends with asterisk slash. You follow this way the compiler ignores everything between slash asterisk and asterisk slash. What about the docker? The documentation comment. This is used to comment for the entire document. Now it starts with slash double asterisk. What does it end with? Asterisk. Slash. Yeah, it can be easy to confuse them, but I want you to know that this indicates a documentation comment. So then the compiler ignores this kind of comment, just like it ignores comments that use multi-line comment. All right, that's enough talk about Java comments. Why don't we just go ahead and move on to IntelliJ and do some practice exercises. So I'll create a new package in the exercise project. Let the package name be comments. Now I will create a new Java class in this package. And we'll make the class name Java. Comments. And lastly I'll add the main method. All righty then. First of all I want to print the Hello Java Developers message to the console by using the println method. Let's run that code. All right. So you see the message is on the console. No problem here. So why don't we go ahead and add a single line comment above println. Method. To add a single line comment, we just use the double slash. Here you can also write any kind of statement that you want. Anything that you type here until the end of the line is going to be ignored by the compiler. But remember, no grocery list. I will add another single line comment though. Like we were saying at the beginning of the video, comments are mostly used to increase the clarity of codes, right? So let's run the code again. So you see the output is the same. So the compiler just ignored those statements, those comments that we wrote. Right. Also IntelliJ has a really quick shortcut for us to add a single line comment. And you can see this shortcut from the code menu. And if you click on this option, the single line comment will be added to the line you selected. We can also look at the shortcut for the comments in the Keymap settings. Yeah. So as you see command slash for Mac, control slash for windows. Let's go ahead and use this shortcut to add a single line comment. And there you see IntelliJ automatically adds a double slash at the beginning of this line. So if you use this combination on the same line again then IntelliJ removes comment marks. Let's go ahead and add a multi-line comment just above the main method. Now here we can add the multi-line comment using the slash and asterisk. Asterisk and slash at the end. Now anything you type in between slash and asterisk and asterisk and slash is just ignored by the compiler. So I can use this more. Um, so that a block of code gets ignored by the compiler? Yeah. So let's go ahead and run the code again. So you see, the output is not changed. That's the same. We can also add a multi-line comment to the, you know, to the block of code here. For example, let's declare three variables with integer type. Let the name of the first variable be x and let its value be four. The second variable can be y and its value can be three. The last variable can be z, and its value will be zero, and assign x plus y to the z variable. And let's print the variable z on the screen just by using the println method. Okay, let's run the code You can see the result in the console. Now let's use the multi-line comment with this code block. And if we want to add a multi-line comment to a code block, we put slash and asterisk at the beginning of the code and then asterisk slash at the end of the code block. Let's go ahead and run that. Now you see just hello Java developers for the text because the compiler ignores the comments block. All right. Good good good. Lastly though, let's have a look at this documentation comment. And just above the main method I'll put slash and two asterisks. Press enter. And this is your documentation or doc comment in Java C because after the slash there are two stars. Asterisk. Also notice here that the argument of the main method is automatically written here. So this comment is again mostly used to define the purpose of the method or the class right? Later, when you want to use the related method or the class in another place. All the points you've commented on here are presented to you as a document. In fact, let's just create a new method here and you'll see what I mean really clearly, right? So at the moment, you don't really know what the method is or how it's created, but for now, just want to focus on comments and you'll see you're going to get into the detailed information about methods later on in other videos. This method here will be a method that multiplies the two values given to it, and then returns the result of that multiplication. So let the name of the method be do multiplication. I'll write integer x and integer y as parameters. I will return the multiplication of x and y. Now let's create a doc comment for this method. For that, I put slash double asterisk on top of the method and press enter. Right. So here you see the parameters of the method we created and the return statement were created automatically. Now let's enter in our own explanations here. For example I'll write. This method multiplies two integer values. And we'll enter a description for the parameters. Here I write x is the first parameter. Here I'll write y is the second parameter. Also here I can write. This method returns the multiplication of x and y. Now let's call this method inside the main method. And I'll write do multiplication and press enter. And why don't we assign the three and the four for parameters. Now remember here to put a semicolon at the end of the line. Now let's position the mouse cursor over this method. And yeah you see the statements we wrote as comments. You see how they're presented here as an explanation of this method? Yeah, that's pretty cool. All right. That's how you do a documentation comment. So my friends now you know all about comments in Java. And I do want to take a short break here before we tack on some more learning. So stick around I want to see you in the next video.

=== 5. Variables ===
Well. Hello friends. Welcome back. In the previous video we learned about comments in Java. So in this video why don't we learn about variables? One of the very basic topics of Java programming and one of the most useful. So first, like I said, we're going to start with the question what is a variable. So a variable it can be thought of as a container or a box which holds value for you right during the life of a particular Java program. So it means that when you create a variable, you basically reserve some space in memory. Every variable is assigned a data type and it holds quantity of value. So here we have two steps to use a variable in a program. They're called declaration and initialization. In order to declare a variable, you must specify the data type and give a unique name to the variable. So in our example, we declare the variable age with int data type. And of course we'll going to cover data types in the next slides. But just stay with me. So in order to initialize a variable you must assign it a valid value according to its data type. So here we use the equation sign. It means that value in the right side will be saved into the variable on the left side. So in our example we'll assign value 37 to a variable age. Now in order to declare more than one variable, use a comma to separate identifiers. Java programming language has rules and conventions for naming variables. So while declaring variables, please note that Java is a case sensitive programming language, which means that the upper or lower case of letters in your Java programs matter. So the variable age that consists of all lowercase is different from the variable age that consists of first capital letter and the rest lowercase. So a variable name can begin with a letter a dollar sign or underline mark. Now if you declare a one word variable name, go ahead and use all lowercase letters. It's not mandatory, but it helps keep things organized. And if you declare a variable name having more than one word. Use all lowercase letters for the first word, and then capitalize the first letter of another word. Now let's look at different types of variables. We have three types of variables in Java. First one is instance variables. So instance variables are defined in a class. But outside of a method declaration they are also defined without the static keyword. So then guess what the second one is? It's static variables. Static variables are initialized only once at the start of the program execution. These variables should be initialized first before the initialization of any instance variables. Also, they're defined in a class but outside a method declaration will cover some static keywords in detail in the next coming slides, and then the last one is local variables. Local variables are declared inside the body of a method, so that's just an introduction. Don't worry. We're going to cover methods as its own subject in greater detail in some of the upcoming slides. Java keywords. Now, as in every other programming language, Java has some reserved words and these are called keywords. We cannot use them as names for variables, methods, classes, or as any other identifier. Now you can see Java keywords on the table here. Each keyword has a specific meaning in the language. So we're going to practice with these keywords in the next exercises. So are you ready. Let's start coding. So in the exercise project right click on the source folder and select New Package. Specify package name as variable. Now let's create a new Java class in this package. Now the class name be variables. And again I'll add a main method. Okay so now we're getting somewhere. Now we can start coding. So let's declare three variables with the int type. First up a and assign ten second b and assign 20. And last see and assign a plus b. So now let's print variable C on the screen by using the print method. Okay. So let's run the code now. And then the result will print result equals 30 in the console. So also we can define variables that are separated by commas. So let's run the code again using a shortcut. And the result is the same. Also we can directly write a plus B to the output. But herein lies a problem. Compiler considers a statement as a string and concatenates them. So in order to solve this problem, we must use a plus B between parentheses. All right. So let's run it again. Ah. Now the result is correct. See that. So let's have a look at some naming rules for variables. We will study the variable age. Int age is valid. Int underscore age is valid. Int dollar mark age is valid. Int age three is valid, but int a space ge is invalid. And three age is invalid because variable names cannot use spaces and a variable name cannot begin with a digit. Also, we cannot use Java keywords as a variable name, so int break is invalid because break is a keyword. Int do is also invalid because do is a keyword and int Public is invalid because public is a keyword. Don't worry, you'll get to know your keywords. As a result, the convention, however, is to always begin your variable names with a letter, dollar sign, or underscore. Additionally, the dollar sign character by convention, is actually not ever used ever at all. You might actually find some situations where auto generated names will contain the dollar sign, but your variable name should always avoid using it. Now, a similar convention exists for the underscore character, which, while it's technically legal to begin your variables name with the underscore, the practice is actually discouraged and whitespace is not permitted. Okay. Subsequent characters may be letters, digit dollar signs, or underscore characters. Conventions and common sense apply to this rule as well. So one more thing. When choosing a name for your variables, use full words instead of cryptic abbreviations. Doing so will make your code easier to read and understand, and in many cases it will also make your code Self-documenting. For example, fields named year and month are much more intuitive than abbreviated versions such as Y and M. Also, keep in mind that the name you choose must not be a keyword or reserved word. All right, my friends, we're going to take another short break here. But when we come back in the next video, we're going to talk about the data types. So stick around I'll see you in the next video.

=== 6. Data Types ===
All right, my friends. Hello and welcome back. So check it out. In this video we're going to talk about data types. Data type defines the values that a variable can take based on the data type of a variable. The operating system allocates memory and decides what can be stored in the reserved memory. Therefore, by assigning different data types to variables, you can store integers, decimals, or characters in these variables. In Java, we need to define the data type of a variable to use it, and you cannot assign incompatible data types. Otherwise the compiler will give you an error. So this Java programming language is statically typed. That just means that all variables must first be declared before they can be used. Now this involves stating the variable's type and name. You've already seen it. Int speed equals 100. Doing this tells your program that a field named speed exists, holds numerical data, and has an initial value of 100. A variable's data type determines the values it may contain, plus the operations that may be performed on it. Now, in addition to int data type, the Java programming language supports seven other primitive data types, and a primitive type is predefined by the language and is named by a reserved keyword. All right, primitive values do not share a state with other primitive values. So let's have a look at this diagram. There are two data types available in Java. first one is primitive and the second one is non primitive. Data types. Non primitive data types are also called reference data types. Class interface string, enum type and array are non primitive data types and we'll discuss them in the upcoming lectures. Here we'll discuss the primitive data types and literals in Java. Primitive data types are predefined by Java programming language and they're named by a reserved keyword. Java provides eight primitive data types. These are. Boolean. Char byte. Short int long. Float and double. Primitive data are only single values. They have no special capabilities. Byte, short, int, and long data types are used for storing whole numbers. Float and double are used for fractional numbers. Char is used for storing characters. Boolean is the data type used for variables that holds either true or false. Now looking at this slide you see Java data types in the table. Byte. The byte data type is an eight bit signed two's complement integer. The byte data type is useful for saving memory in large arrays. It has a minimum value of -128 and a maximum value of 127 inclusively. The default value of byte is zero. Short. The short data type is a 16 bit signed two's complement integer, similar to. Byte. Use is short to save memory in large arrays, especially in situations where. Where memory savings actually matters. It has a minimum value of -32,768, and a maximum value of 32,767, inclusively. It also has a default value of zero. Int. The int data type is a 32 bit signed two's complement integer, which has a minimum value of minus two to the 31st and a maximum value of two to the 31st minus one. Long. The long data type is a 64 bit two's complement integer. The signed long has a minimum value of minus two to the 63rd, and a maximum value of two to the 63rd minus one. And you can use this data type when you need a range of values wider than those that are provided by int float. The float data type is a single precision 32 bit floating point. If you need to save memory in large arrays of floating point numbers, you should use a float instead of double, which is double. The double data type is a double precision 64 bit floating point for decimal values. This data type is generally the default choice. Boolean. The boolean data type represents only one bit of information, either true or false. Char. The char data type is a single 16 bit Unicode character. So why don't we do some examples with data types. So in our exercise project right click on the source folder and select new package. Specify package name data type. So now I'll create a Java class named Data Type in this package. And lastly I will add the main method. Now let's start with data type. Boolean A equals true. The Boolean type of course, has two possible values, either true or false. Char b equals capital r. So the char type declares a character. Okay. Byte c equals 12. Remember byte type can have values from -128 to 127. Short D equals -356. The short type can have values from -32,767 and 32,767. Int e equals 43 43. So the int type is generally used for numeric values. So now let's declare variable f with a long data type. The long type is used for large values. So capital L is a specific suffix for the long type. Another variable g with float as a data type. Remember that the float type is used for large values with single precision, and a capital F is the specific suffix for the float type. Another variable H with the double data type. So the double data type is used for large values with double precision. Okay. So now let's print the values of these variables on the screen by using the print method, which we know so well. Okay. So now let's change the variable name from A to H. All right good. Let's run the code. And look at that. You see the results in the console. Now in addition to the eight primitive data types listed above. The Java programming language also provides special support for character strings via the Java.lang.string class. So in closing, your character string within double quotes will automatically create a new string object. So for example, string Str1 equals double quotes. This is a string. So Str1. This is the variable that holds the. This is a string text. Let's go ahead and print the Str1 string to the console with a print method. We'll check it out. We've got results in the console. Also want to point this out. String objects are immutable, and that means that once created, their values cannot be changed. Yet the string class is not technically a primitive data type, but considering the special support given to it by the language, you'll probably tend to think of it as such. You'll learn a whole lot more about the string class in a different section of this course. A little bit later, okay, so don't get hung up on it. For now, I want to show you another thing. So let's now create a new variable of type. Long, long. Money equals 98765432198. What do you see here. That's a compilation error. Okay. So the error message says that the integer number is too large. So this literal type integer is out of range of the int data type. Okay. So how do you prevent this error? Let me just write uppercase or lowercase l at the end of the number. See now both are acceptable. But using a lowercase l is what's not preferred. Now let's just draw your attention to another point. Notice here I named this variable money, but these numbers seem rather complicated to read as money, right? So we can actually use the underscore to read this better. This is allowed for example we can put underscores here, here and here. But we can't put the underscore first. Or last. Okay. So in this case our code will just not compile and we'll get a compilation error. Now it's also possible to use the underscore with fractional numbers. Let's just define a variable of type float. Float float one equals 45.987654. Now of course, since this is a float, we need to write a lower or uppercase F here. Generally capital letters are preferred. So what happens when we use the underscore. So again we can put an underscore between the numbers. And we won't get any errors. But we can't put the underscore at the beginning. Or at the end. Or just before or just after the point here. Otherwise we will get a compilation error. Again, this is something to pay attention to. All right, let's take a short break. I'll see you in the next video.

=== 7. Numbers in Java ===
Welcome back. Here we are in the next video. So we're going to be diving into the fascinating world of numbers in Java specifically though decimal, hexadecimal, octal and binary systems. Don't worry, it's not as well. It's not quite as complex as it sounds. It's kind of complex. So let's break it down. First up, let's talk about decimal numbers. And this is the number system that we use in everyday life. You might be familiar with it in Java though we call it literal. So it refers to the base ten number system and is what we're accustomed to. Like I said you know, 123, four five, six, seven, eight, nine, etc., etc.. Now let's have a look at the binary numbers. The system of course uses only zeros and ones. It refers to the base two number system. So in Java, to store binary numbers, just add zero and b before the digits, right. The storage data type is integer. Now we move on to octal numbers. So octal numbers refer to the base eight number system. Octal numbers range from 0 to 7. So to store them in Java, simply add a leading zero right. So these are called octal literals and the data type integer. So what about this one that we saved for last. Hexadecimal. Yeah. Hexadecimal numbers go from 0 to 9 and use A to F for values 10 to 15. So it refers to the base 16 number system. And in Java to store hexadecimal, add zero and x before the digits. Storage type again is integer. Now let's have a little peek into the magic of converting between these systems. All right. So let's take for instance the decimal number 13. It's octal equivalent is expressed as one and five. The hexadecimal equivalent is represented by the letter D. Now in binary it's denoted as 1101. Okay. So let's get into how we actually convert these numbers. So we'll examine this 1101 in the binary system. So here each digit is written with a base of two. Okay. So to convert this to decimal we just need to multiply each digit by a power of two. Yeah. The first rightmost digit is two to the zero power. The second digit is two to the first To power, the third digit is multiplied by two to the second power and the leftmost. The last digit is two to the third power. So you see here, when you do this, the number you get will correspond to the number 13 that we use in the decimal system that is in regular daily life. But now that you know this, this might become your regular daily life. Huh? Well, let's move on. So here is 214 in the octal system. Now here each digit is written with a base of eight. To convert this to decimal, we just need to multiply each digit by a power of eight. Yeah. So the first rightmost digit here is eight to the zero power. The second digit is eight to the first power. Third digit is multiplied by eight to the second power. Yeah. It's already getting easier, right? Because you can see that when you do this, a number that you get will correspond to the number 140 that we use in the decimal system, you know, like in regular daily life. So sure enough we're going to lastly examine 1FA in the hex system. Now here each digit is written with a base of 16. To convert this to decimal we need to multiply each digit by a power of a 16. So the first rightmost digit is the letter A right. So the meaning of the letter A is ten. In the decimal system, because we multiplied ten by 16 to the zero power. The second digit f. The meaning of the letter f here is 15 in the decimal system. So we multiply the 15 by 16 to the first power. Third digit multiplied by 16 to the second power. Therefore, when you do this, the number you get will correspond to the number 506. Like in the decimal system, you know, in our regular daily life. We're now going to move on to IntelliJ and do some exercises. So in our exercise project right click on the source folder and select New and Package. Specify the package name numbers. Now let's create a new Java class in this package. The class name will be Java numbers. And lastly of course we'll add the main method. Okay. So we're going to get started here with octal number systems. And here I'll just create a variable int octal number one equals and I will assign zero eight to this variable you see. But what's this compilation error. Because since this value begins with zero Java accepts this variable as an octal number. So remember that the octal is in base eight and the digits range from 0 to 7. So I'll just fix it real quick. I'll write 015 instead. All right. So this octal number will be stored as 13 in decimal in Java. So if we print the octal number one variable to the console we see 13 as a result. Now let's create another variable int octal number 20104. Since its first digit is zero. Java accepts it as octal again. So when we print this to the console, we see the number 68 as a result. All right. So let's add these two variables and pass them to another variable int. Some octal numbers equals octal number one plus octal number two. This will be printed on the console screen as the sum of the decimal values of both variables. That would be 81. Now. So now that quickly print them to the console with the print line method and observe. Also, let's create a print method at the top to name these operations. Yeah, Let's test it out now. Yeah. So you can see here the decimal equivalents are printed on the console screen not octal values. Now if you want to we can print the equivalent of a decimal value in the octal system to the console. So let's say for example let's print the value of the some octal numbers variable to the console as octal. I'll just copy the last print method. Now to convert decimal numbers to octal we will use the two octal string method of the integer class. So here I'll write integer dot to octal string. Now I write the decimal number that is the some octal numbers variable, which I want to learn the octal equivalent of in parentheses. Also, this will be the result as octal. And now let's run the application once more. Now you can see we have also printed the result in the octal system to the console. So that's octal numbers. Why don't we then do an example about this hexadecimal. You can see how that works. So I'll create a variable called hex number one. And I will assign 1B0. Also to indicate that this is a hexadecimal number I'll put a zero and an x at the beginning of the number. Remember, the hexadecimal numbers should begin with zero and x. Now you see what it looks like. And this hexadecimal number will be stored as 432in decimal in Java. So if we print the hex number one variable to the console, we see 432 as the output. Very good, very good. Why don't we create another variable called hex number two. And I will assign zero x to h. Now if you're paying attention you'll see that we get a compilation error because this number starts with zero and x. Well yeah. The Java virtual machine accepts it as a hexadecimal number. And hexadecimal numbers include numbers from 0 to 9 and letters from A to F. So since H is actually outside this range. That's why we get this compiler error. Now let's just replace it with letter F. Okay. If we print this to the console we'll now see the number 47 is our result. Now why don't we just for fun, add these two variables and pass them to another variable and some hex numbers. Equals hex number one plus hex number two. Now this will be printed on the console screen as the sum of the decimal values of both variables. And that would be 479. Okay. So let's quickly print them to the console with the print line method and observe. So I'll copy these print methods paste them in here. And I will change the variable names. And also this method will be to hex string. And its value will be some hex numbers. Okay we're ready to run it and see. Yeah. So you're looking at decimal values. Get printed to the console screen not hexadecimal values. Now the last row is the hexadecimal equivalent of the some hex numbers variable. Right. Okay, good. So why don't we do an example using binary numbers. And then we can wrap it up here. So I want to create a variable called binary number one. I will assign zero be 1001 to this variable 1001. Now, since the number has a leading zero and a b, well, the Java virtual machine reads it as a binary number. Remember that binary numbers also consist of only zeros and ones. Furthermore, this binary number will be stored as nine in decimal in Java. So if we print the binary number one variable to the console, we'll see nine as a result. All right. Let's just create another variable called binary number two. So I will assign 0B10111011. Since it begins with zero and b, Java accepts this number as binary again. So when we print this to the console, we see the number 11 as a result. All right. So now let's add these two variables and pass them to another variable and some binary numbers. Equals binary number one plus binary number two. This will be printed on the console screen as the sum of the decimal values of both variables. And that would be 20. Now we can quickly print them to the console or the print line method and observe. So I'll just copy these print methods. I'll change the variable names. And also this method will be to binary string. And its value will be the sum binary numbers. Right. Okay. Let's run it and see. There you go. Decimal values are printed on the console screen, not the binary values. And the last row is the binary equivalent of the sum binary numbers variable. All right my friends, let's wrap it up here. Those are the number systems in Java. We'll take a short break, but I want to see you in the next video. See you then.

=== 8. Type Conversion and Type Casting ===
Well, hello my friends. In this video we're going to talk about type conversion and type casting in Java. So when we assign the value of one data type to another, if the data types are compatible, then Java will perform the conversion automatically. So this process is known as automatic type conversion, right? If the conversion is not performed automatically, then they will need to be casted or converted explicitly. So if the two data types are compatible and when we assign a value of a smaller data type to a bigger data type. Automatic type conversion happens. So in our example first we'll see. We'll define the variable A with the double data type and no initial value. And then secondly we can define the variable b with int data type and assign a value of 20. And then we assign a variable b to variable A. Because of the int data type is smaller than the double data type. This conversion is performed automatically. Right. And this process is known as automatic type conversion. Say it with me. Good job. Now if we want to assign a value of larger data type to a smaller data type, that's when we perform explicit type casting. So in our second example, contrary to the first example, we'll define a variable A with double data type and then assign a value of 20. Second we'll define variable b with int data type but no initial value. And then when we try to assign variable a to variable b Unfortunately, this conversion could not be performed and the compiler gives us an error. And you know why? Right. Because the double data type is bigger than the int data type. So in these cases you just have to explicitly specify the typecast operator. And that process is known as typecasting. So why do you suppose we would need type conversion. Well we may need this in data storage. So let's say for example you might want to store a data type in a more suitable type. For example storing a number as an integer because that uses less memory. So we can use it in mathematical operations as well. When it's necessary to perform operations between different types, you see these types need to be made compatible. For example, you will develop a calculator application and you will divide the one integer number entered by the user by another integer number entered by the user. But you see, the result of the operation might not always be an integer. So in that case, if you don't convert the result to double or float, you're going to lose some data. So I want to show you that looks like with a concrete example. So let's say again the user wants to divide the number 32 by two. And in this case the result will be 17.5. Now if you define the variable as an integer rather than a double or a float, the Java programming language will round it to 17. And in this case we may need type conversion to get that result 17.5. Of course, there's another thing that you need to pay attention to. I wonder if you remember I shared the sizes of these data types in the previous video. So I want to remind you once again here, the largest of the data types is double, then float, then long, then integer, then short, then byte. So if you convert a small value to a large value, there's not going to be any problem. In other words, if you convert a byte type variable to a double type, you will not experience any data loss. However, if you convert a large value to a small value, you may experience data loss. For example, if you convert a variable of type double to type integer. I mean, chances are you will lose data, right? Just wanted to be clear. Now let's go ahead and open up IntelliJ and try to understand type conversion and type casting in Java. Because didn't I just cloud your mind with mud? No, I'm just playing. Okay. In the exercise project right click on the data type package and select new and class. Specify the name type casting. And again I'll add the main method. Now let's declare variable a with int type and assign 124 to it. Then declare variable B with long type and assign a. So in this process, there is no need for typecasting because the long type is larger than the int type. Now in the same way, declare variable d with double type and assign b. And here again, there's no need for typecasting because double type is larger than long type. So let's print the values of these variables by using our print method. Now let's change the variable names and the other parts. Okay. So let's run the code. And you can see the results in the console. Now let's have a look at the situations that would need typecasting. Let's declare a variable dbl with double type and assign 135.35. Then declare the variable l and g with a long type and assign dbl. Now in this process we get a compilation error. Why? When we position the mouse over the error. See how it indicates that the required value should be long, but the provided value is double. So that means there's a tight mismatch compilation error here. Right. So that just means typecasting is required because the long type is smaller than the double type. So we choose the cast expression to long option to add the casting operator with the long type. And now you see the error is gone. And yeah. So let's go ahead and declare variable byte with byte type and assign LNG. There's your error again. Typecasting is required because the byte type is smaller than the long type. So we choose the cast expression to byte option. Let's go ahead and print the values of these variables by using the print method. And we can change the variable names in other parts. All right, let's run the code. Now you see the results in the console, but the value of the double number is 135.35, while the value of the long number is only 135. The value of the byte number is a very different result, my friends. This is because we try to convert a large number to a small number. This resulted in some data loss. You should definitely take this into consideration. That's why I went the long way around to show you. You got to remember. All right, my friends, that's pretty much it for type conversion in Java programming. So let's just take a short break here and stick around. There's more in the next video.
