=== 1. Thread contention and deadlocks ===
Well hello my friends. Welcome back. So now it's time that we talk about thread contention and deadlocks. We'll start with thread contention. And thread contention basically occurs when multiple threads compete for shared resources such as locks or variables. Now this can lead to delays as threads wait their turn to access the resource. Thread contention can significantly degrade performance in highly concurrent applications if not managed properly, and some of the most common causes of thread contention. Overuse of synchronized blocks or methods. Threads waiting for I o operations to complete. Competition for locks and data structures like HashMap or file handlers. So that's why we've got to reduce contention, minimize the scope of locks. Use concurrent data structures like concurrent hash map. Optimize the critical sections of your code. Yeah. That's why that's third in priority. Let's talk about the deadlocks. So deadlocks occur when two or more threads are stuck waiting for each other to release the resources they need to proceed. Classic deadlock example involves a couple of threads holding one lock each and waiting to acquire the other lock. Okay, so of course there are ways to avoid deadlocks. You avoid nested locks. So in other words, you don't lock one resource while holding another lock ordering. So ensure all threads acquire locks in the same order. Use timeouts. Employ try lock with a timeout to avoid indefinite waiting. Now guess what? We're going to move on to IntelliJ and get some practice time in. All right. Good. So going to first want to create a Java project named Performance and Scalability. So in this project, let's create a Java class called Thread Contention example. And let's just go ahead and add the main method. And the example that will make will will demonstrate how multiple threads contend for a shared resource using a reentrant lock. Now each thread is going to try to acquire the lock, perform some work, and then release it. And you'll see how thread contention impacts execution order. So first I want to use the reentrant lock class to create a lock. And this will control access to a critical section. After that, I needed to define a shared resource. So I'll create a counter variable as my shared resource. Now I'll define the tasks for threads using runnable and the runnable will simulate thread contention. Each thread will acquire the lock. Increment the counter. Print its status. Release the lock in that order. All right, let's create it now. All right. So I'll just create and start multiple threads using runnable to simulate contention. Okay, so let's run it and see what happens. We can examine the output thread. One acquires a lock and enters the critical section. It increments the shared counter, prints the message, releases the lock release and lock allows another thread to acquire it. After thread one releases the lock, thread three acquires it. It performs the same actions as thread one, increments a counter, prints its message, and releases the lock. Thread two follows the same pattern as the previous threads. Acquires lock increments a counter, prints a message, and releases the lock. So now considering this output let's talk about this thread contention. So we've got serialized access to the counter, right? Only one thread accesses the shared counter at any given time. This is ensured by the use of reentrant lock, which prevents simultaneous access to the critical section. No overlaps in thread execution, right? The output shows that each thread completes its work before the next thread begins. This demonstrates proper thread synchronization and lock management. Also, fairness in lock access. The threads acquire the lock in a seemingly fair order, though in practice fairness is not guaranteed unless explicitly requested when initializing the lock. New reentrant lock in parentheses. True. Okay, so the order observed here is likely due to thread scheduling by the JVM. Now the critical section is the code that Increments the counter and prints the message. Because this section is protected by a lock, it ensures that the counter is incremented without interference from other threads. The thread prints its message without getting interrupted. So if threads try to acquire the lock simultaneously, the following may occur. One thread, for example thread one acquires the lock and starts execution. Other threads, maybe thread two and thread three are going to be forced to wait until the lock is released. So this orderly execution avoids race conditions as well as maintains data integrity. Okay, so that's the thread contention. Now let's take a look at deadlock. So a deadlock happens when two or more threads are waiting for each other to release the resources they need, causing the program to hang indefinitely. This usually involves circular dependencies between locks. Okay, so that's just a brief review. Let's just do the example. Now in the same project I just want to create another class named deadlock example. I'll use two re-entrant lock objects to simulate the dependency. Now I'll define the first task using runnable. So with this task thread, one will acquire lock one first and then attempt to acquire lock two. Let's code. Okay. Task one is ready. Now let's define the second task with a second task. Thread two will acquire lock two first and then attempt to acquire lock one. Let's code that. Okay, so now I've got test two ready. Let's run both tasks simultaneously to simulate the deadlock. Okay, let's run it and observe. Let's examine the first line. Thread one successfully acquires lock one and enters its first critical section. Then it attempts to acquire lock two, but lock two is already held by thread two. Thread one is now blocked waiting for lock two. Let's look at the second line. Thread two successfully acquires lock two and enters its first critical section. It then attempts to acquire lock one, but lock one is already held by thread one. Thread two is now blocked waiting for lock one. So my friends, what happens next? Yeah. Your deadlock. Neither thread can proceed because. Thread one waiting for lock two, which is held by thread two. Thread two is waiting for lock one which is held by thread one. So that's what I mean by a circular dependency. Okay. So the threads are stuck, right? Both threads are stuck indefinitely, unable to make progress. The program hangs at this point unless external intervention occurs, but that pretty much just means forcibly terminating one of the threads. Okay, that's as far as we're gonna get to right here, right now. So we'll take a break. Think on that, but I'll see you in the next video.

=== 2. Thread safety and immutability ===
And here we are my friends. Welcome back. So in this video we need to talk about thread safety and immutability. Yeah. So what is thread safety anyway. Well thread safety just ensures that shared data is accessed and modified by multiple threads in a manner that does not lead to race conditions or data inconsistency. So a thread safe program ensures predictable behavior regardless of the execution order of threats. Now, when we're talking about thread safety, we can safely talk about two key concepts. First off, the race condition and a race condition occurs when threads access shared resources concurrently and the result depends on the timing of thread execution. Second critical section A part of the program that accesses shared resources and must be executed by only one thread at a time. So there's a few techniques for thread safe. We actually learned them in the previous videos. But instead of doing a pop quiz, let's just review them together. We've got synchronization. Use synchronize blocks or methods to enforce exclusive access locks, so you can use reentrant lock for fine grained control or volatile variables. Ensure visibility of changes to variables across threads. Atomic variables use classes like atomic integer for atomic operations. Immutable objects create objects that cannot be modified after construction, eliminating synchronization needs. So yeah, let's talk about immutability. You may remember immutability is a design principle where the state of an object cannot be modified after it's created. This property inherently ensures thread safety, because immutable objects can be shared freely between threads without requiring any synchronization or locks. But I'll tell you why immutability is important. Thread safety is definitely tops, so immutable objects eliminate race conditions since threads cannot modify their state. Consistency. Once created, immutable objects maintain the same state, ensuring data consistency across threads. Ease of debugging. Now, immutable objects simplify debugging and reasoning about the program because their state is constant and predictable. Better performance as well, though avoids the overhead of synchronization when sharing data between threads. So here we've got a few of the characteristics of immutable objects. To create an immutable class in Java, you must declare the class as final right? Prevent subclassing which could alter behavior. You make fields private and final. This prevents direct access and ensures values cannot be changed after initialization. Do not provide setter methods. This prevents modifying fields after object creation. Also ensure deep copying of mutable fields. Huh? Yeah. This avoids exposing mutable references. Provide only getters or methods that return new instances for updates. Now I think that's enough theory. I kind of was watching your eyes glaze over there. So why don't we just move on over to IntelliJ and get some practice in? All right, ladies and gentlemen and children of all ages. We will now demonstrate thread safety and immutability concepts in action. Well, okay, we're actually going to make an example. Uh, we created a shared counter object that multiple threads will increment. Right. Remember that. So to ensure thread safety the counters increment method is synchronized. So only one thread can update the counter at a time, right? Three threads are used to demonstrate how synchronization prevents race conditions while updating the shared resource. So why don't we just, uh, take it into action? So I want to create a new Java class in the Performance and Scalability project. And we're going to call it Thread safe counter. Now I want to declare a shared counter variable. So I'll create an integer field named counter and initialize it to zero. Now I'll add a synchronized method to increment the counter. So let's define a method called increment. This method will increment the counter inside a synchronized block to ensure thread safety. All right. The increment method is now ready. And now let's create the getter method of the counter field to fetch the current value of the counter. All right. So now this class is ready. Let's create a test class called Main test. And let's create the main method inside this class. All righty righty. Now let's create an instance of the Threadsafe counter class named counter. After, I'll create a runnable task that calls the increment method of the counter object. We can call the increment method with method reference. Now I want to create three threads and start them up. First parameter will be the task. The second parameter will be thread1. Let's duplicate this line twice and I'll change the name of the threads. Okay, so now we can start these threads. All right. Let's run the code and observe the output. Thread one executes first then thread three executes. Lastly thread two executes. So thread one acquires a lock and increments the counter to one. Thread three waits for thread one to release a lock, then increments a counter to two. Thread two waits for thread three to finish, then increments the counter to three. Great. So far so good. But let's just summarize it while we have a chance. So the counter is incremented safely without interference. Because the increment method is synchronized, only one thread can execute the increment method at a time, ensuring thread safety. All right. So that's the thread safety concept. Let's have a look at immutability. So that means we'll now have to create an example to demonstrate immutability in a multithreaded context. But here's a scenario. We're going to create an immutable person class where the state such as name age that kind of thing. And the object cannot be modified after creation. Then we'll demonstrate how immutable objects are safely shared between multiple threads. So my friends, let's take action. I want to create a new Java class in this project. Let the name of this class be person. Now I want to add two fields. Name and age and mark them as final. Now lets define a constructor that initializes these fields when the object is created. Of course, I'll add a couple of getter methods. Get name and get age. These will retrieve the values of the fields. These methods will not allow modification though. Okay. The person class is now ready. We'll need to create a test class named Immutability Test. I'll also add the main method and we can of course create a person object with a name and age. Let's make the name Alice and the age will be 30. And now let's create a runnable task that retrieves and prints a person's details. All right. So after I'll create and start multiple threads so we can create three threads named thread one, thread two and thread three. Now let's start the threads. And run the code. So let's have a look at the output. So hopefully you can see each thread acts as the same immutable person object and retrieved its state. Since the person object is immutable, no synchronization or locks are required. All threads can safely access it without any risk of race conditions. So if the person object were mutable, that is, if it had the ability to change its state with setter methods, you might just see these results and especially risks involved. We've talked about race conditions, right? If more than one thread tries to make changes to the object at the same time, unexpected and inconsistent situations may occur. For example, while one thread increases the age value of the object and other decreases it at the same time. Data corruption. If synchronization is not provided between threads, the state of the object may be corrupted and this can lead to erroneous outputs as well as. Application crashes. Thread safety overhead. So when you're working with mutable objects, we have to use mechanisms such as synchronized blocks or reentrant lock. This causes the code to be more complex and costly in terms of performance. So as a result, immutable objects inherently avoid these issues and are much better choice for shared data in multithreaded environments. Mutable objects require careful synchronization, adding complexity and potential performance overhead. Should you choose immutable, my friend, you won't have to deal with any of the above problems. All right, I think that's enough about immutability. Why don't we just take a short break here and we'll come back in the next video? See you then.

=== 3. Optimizing Thread Pools ===
All right. Hello, my friends, and welcome back. So guess what? It's time to talk about what a thread pool is. No, it's not a comic book character. Thread pool. We'll talk about what thread pool is and how we can optimize it. So efficient thread management. It's a critical component of building scalable, high performance applications. C thread pools help in optimizing resource usage by managing a pool of reusable threads, instead of creating and destroying threads for each task. This reduces the overhead and improves application responsiveness. Let's go ahead and dive in to some of the core concepts, huh? A thread pool is a group of pre instantiated threads that are reused to execute tasks. So instead of creating a new thread for every task, tasks are queued and executed by available threads in the pool. Now you see why we learned that earlier stuff. What are some of the advantages reduced overhead. So reusing threads avoids a cost of thread creation and destruction. Improved scalability limits the number of active threads to prevent resource exhaustion. Also, task queuing tasks can wait in a queue if no threads are available. Now there's a few different types of thread pools. So thread pools in Java are actually characterized based on their behavior and intended use cases. So why don't we look at the different types of thread pools provided by the executors factory class? The first pool is the fixed thread pool. This thread pool creates a thread pool with a fixed number of threads. Once all threads are busy, additional tasks wait in a queue until a thread becomes available. Yeah, so it's suitable for applications with a steady workload or a predictable number of threads needed. The advantages would be avoiding the overhead of dynamic thread creation. It also prevents resource overutilization by limiting the number of threads. Let me give you a quick example of a scenario of a fixed thread pool. The thread pool can be used for a web server that processes a fixed number of requests simultaneously. All right, got another one for you. The cached thread pool. Now the cached thread pool creates threads as needed, but reuses previously created threads if they just so happen to be available. Threads that are idle for more than 60s are terminated. Now, this thread pool is ideal for short lived asynchronous tasks with unpredictable loads. Some advantages would be avoiding thread creation delays for bursts of tasks. It also automatically adjusts thread count based on workload. But beside these advantages. Well, it's actually a disadvantage. It can potentially create too many threads if the number of tasks is high, leading to resource exhaustion. So let me just think of an example for the thread pool. For instance, processing multiple independent tasks like batch jobs or small computational tasks. Got another one for you though. Single thread executor. The single thread executor creates a single worker thread to process tasks sequentially so tasks are executed one after another in order that they are submitted. This thread pool is very useful for tasks that need to be executed serially, ensuring thread safe execution. An advantage here is that the pool simplifies synchronization because only one thread is active. Also, logging events to a file where order matters and parallel access could corrupt data. Well, that's a great use for this thread, but we've also got this scheduled thread pool. Now this thread pool is used for scheduling tasks to run after delay or periodically. Tasks can be scheduled using methods like schedule or schedule at fixed rate. The scheduled thread pool is perfect for repeated or delayed task execution. It provides fine control over task execution timing. Periodically refreshing cached data from a remote server would definitely be a useful scenario for this thread, but guess what? We've also got the work stealing pool. Now this pool was introduced in Java eight. It creates threads that dynamically steal work from other threads queues when idle. It uses the fork join pool under the hood, so the work stealing pool is actually best suited for tasks that can be broken into smaller subtasks, allowing very efficient resource utilization. It reduces thread idling and optimizes CPU bound tasks by leveraging all cores. Parallel processing of large data sets would be a great scenario for this thread. All right. So there you have the different thread pool types. So that means you're ready to hear about the classes and interfaces that we use for thread pool management. The first one we got to cover here is the executor interface. Now the executive interface is the base interface for executing tasks. Okay. It's void execute method executes the given runnable task. So this interface decouples task submission from thread creation and management. So we can use this interface when we need basic task execution without having to worry about any task completion results. Second one is the executor service interface. The executive service interface extends executor and adds more advanced functionalities for task submission and life cycle management of thread pools with executor service. We can actually submit tasks using methods like submit, which return a future object to track the tasks, progress or result. It also provides life cycle methods such as shutdown to stop accepting new tasks and complete existing ones. Also, shut down now so that you can attempt an immediate shutdown by interrupting active tasks. Executor service is very useful for when you want finer control over task execution and thread pool termination. Next one up is the callable interface, and the callable interface is similar to runnable, but designed for tasks that return a result or can throw a checked exception instead of the run method. Callable defines a call method that returns a generic type callables ideal when we need tasks to compute results or handle exceptions, unlike runnable, though, it doesn't support these features. For instance, when a task performs a computation like fetching data from an API, callable is going to be your better choice. Then we have the future interface. So this future interface represents the result of an asynchronous computation. It provides methods like get to retrieve the result blocking if necessary until the task completes, and is done to check if the task is finished. So it also supports task cancellation with a cancel method, allowing us to stop tasks that are no longer needed. Future is essentially your go to for managing and retrieving results from task submitted to a thread pool. And finally, that leads us to the executors utility class. So the executors class provides factory methods to create different types of thread pools like fixed thread pool, cache. Thread pool and more. It actually simplifies the creation of thread pools and abstracts the underlying complexity. So for instance, instead of manually configuring a thread pool, we can use executors new fixed thread pool. And that'll quickly set up a pool with a fixed number of threads. So this utility class is a cornerstone of Java's thread pool management, actually providing a very convenient and standardized way to work with threads. A3 now, you might be wondering what's going on here? Why do we really need to optimize thread pools? Well, I'll tell you this for nothing. We must optimize thread pools to prevent overprovisioning of threads, as that will lead to CPU thrashing and also to avoid too few threads which might actually underutilize system resources. So how can we do this optimization? We've got some best practices for you as well as some recommendations. Are you ready? Choosing the right type. Yeah. You can use fixed thread pool for known workloads and cache thread pool for variable workloads. Calculating optimal thread pool size. CPU bound tasks use fewer threads to match the number of available CPU cores. I o bound tasks use more threads to handle delays during I o. Setting task timeout. Ensure tasks have a timeout in order to prevent long running tasks from hogging the pool. Also, what about monitoring performance? You can use monitoring tools to track thread pool behavior and adjust sizes accordingly. All right. So that's a lot of theory about what a thread pool is. But why don't we move on to IntelliJ and get some practice. So we're going to make an example that goes like this. We're going to create a thread pool using fixed thread pool to manage a set of threads that calculate squares of numbers. Tasks will be submitted to the pool and the results will be processed concurrently. So let's take some action now. First, let's create a new Java class in the performance and scalability package. We're going to call this thread pool example. I want to add the main method. Okay. Now let's create a thread pool with a fixed number of threads. And for this I'll use the executor service interface. And its name is going to be executor. So after the equal signs I'll write right. Executors. New fixed thread pool. I want to provide three for the number of threads. Good. So after that I can create some tasks that calculate the square of numbers. So each task is represented by a callable that takes an integer and returns its square. And we'll let this task calculate the square of the number five. So lastly, let's return the five. Multiply five. All right. So there's our first task. Ready. Just like that. Let's create two more tasks to calculate the squares of seven and ten. All right so our tasks are ready. Now let's just submit these tasks to the thread pool and collect results using future. Now let's use a get method of the future interface to fetch and print results, and each result will be displayed after the task is completed. Good, good, good. So we can finally shut down the executor to release resources. So we call the shutdown method on the executor object. All right, my friends, let's go ahead and run the code. And let's have a look at the output. Each task is executed by a separate thread in the pool, such as pool one, thread one, pool one, thread two, etc. the results are retrieved and printed after task completion. And since we used a fixed thread pool size of three. All tasks execute concurrently, improving efficiency. Now, if we had defined more than three tasks since we have three threads. Only three tasks would be done at the same time, right? That means concurrently, the other tasks would just be added to the queue until the thread completes its task and becomes idle, and the first idled thread would take the next task in the queue. All right. So let's summarize what we've been doing here. Thread pools optimize resource usage by reusing threads for multiple tasks. We used a fixed thread pool to manage threads and submitted tasks using the callable interface. Results were retrieved using the future interface. All right, my friends, we can take a short break here if you want, but stick around. I'll see you in the next video.

=== 4. Parallel stream ===
All right my friends. Hello and welcome back. So in this video we're going to talk about parallel stream. You just don't talk about that enough do you. So Parallel stream is a feature introduced in Java eight, designed to improve performance by utilizing multiple threads to process a collection of data concurrently. Now, when we use a parallel stream, the data processing is automatically divided into smaller tasks, which are then distributed across multiple threads in a thread pool. So this is particularly useful for CPU intensive tasks as it leverages modern multi-core processors effectively. Okay, that's the name of the game. Now let's have a look at how parallel streams actually work with threads. So there's something that's called parallelism. The parallel stream divides the elements of a collection into chunks. And these chunks are then processed by thread simultaneously making operations faster for large data sets. Good forkjoinpool Pool. Parallel stream uses a common fork join pool. Say that three times fast, but this is a thread pool designed for parallel processing. By default, the pool size is determined by this formula. Number of available processors minus one. Yeah. Simple, but it ensures that other system tasks are not overwhelmed. Stateless operations. Parallel stream works best with stateless and non-blocking operations. Any stateful operations, for example modifying shared data, can lead to thread safety issues. Thread overhead. While parallel stream reduces execution time for large data sets, small data sets may suffer from thread overhead, making it slower than sequential processing. So that just begs the question where should we be using parallel stream and when should we be avoiding it? Well, parallel stream happens to be ideal for large data sets and computationally intensive tasks, But avoid parallel streams for small data sets, or when thread safety is a concern, for example, modifying shared variables. Now, of course, parallel stream may have some limitations. Thread management. Since parallel stream uses the common forkjoinpool. Excessive use can lead to thread contention or starvation for other tasks. Deterministic output. The order of processing may differ from the original collection, which might not be acceptable in some use cases. Be aware, my friends. So now let's just move on over to IntelliJ and get some practice in. So we're going to make an example like this. We will process a list of numbers using a parallel stream to calculate the square of each number. We'll observe how multiple threads are used for this operation that way. And the result will demonstrate how parallel streams split the workload among threads. Why don't we take this action forward? So first I'll need to create a new Java class in the Performance and Scalability project, and we're going to call this class Parallel Stream example. This will be the entry point for our example. And I'll add the main method. Now let's create a list of numbers. I'll use the of method of the list interface to quickly generate a list of integers from 1 to 10. Now I'll use the parallel stream method on this list to process the numbers in parallel. So each number will be squared and the result will be printed alongside the thread handling the task. All right. Looks like we can now test the code. And let's observe the output. There you see different threads from the Forkjoinpool are processing the numbers. And you can see thread names like Forkjoinpool common pool worker one. So the order of numbers Processed does not follow the original list. Did you notice that? And that's just because tasks are executed in parallel and the processing time may vary across threads. Something to keep in mind. So each thread is actually responsible for a chunk of numbers. And this demonstrates how parallel stream defines workload. All right. So that's the concept. And let's summarize it. We've explored how parallel streams utilize threads to process data collections efficiently. And this is what we've observed how parallel streams divide tasks among threads. The usage of forkjoinpool. The importance of using stateless operations for thread safety and parallel stream is actually a powerful tool for handling large data sets in a multi-threaded environment, but it should be used cautiously to avoid unnecessary overhead. All right. Very good, my friends. Good work. And we'll take a short break here. I'll see you next time in the next video.
