=== 1. Introduction to Stream ===
Well, hello there, my friends, so check it out. With this video we're going to start learning the Java Stream API. So far you've learned the collections API Lambda expressions as well as loops. So now wouldn't it be the time to learn the stream API? So first of all, what is this stream and stream API? Now a stream basically represents a sequence of elements from a data source such as collection, array, file, etc.. Okay. It however, is not like a collection. It does not store data, it only performs operations on data. See? So once consumed it cannot be used again. So now let's grapple with the understanding of the stream API. Stream API is a concept that's kind of entered our lives with Java eight, allowing us to access and process elements that we can store with collections way more easily. Yes, he would not actually be wrong to make such a definition for that kind of stream API, because the main purpose of using collections is not to store objects in a collection and leave them there, right? In most cases, we're working with collections in order to retrieve elements stored with collections, and to use these elements in ways and places that are suitable for whatever our purpose would be. So therefore, the question that we really do need to consider here is how can we access the data we store with collections? Or how can we navigate between the data that we store with collections? Now there are actually three different methods we can use here. First, with loops, especially with the for and the for each loops second with iterator, and the third is with guess what? Stream API. Of course, you remember we've already been working with the for loop in the iterator, and we've learned how to use them in all of our applications going forward. So now we're going to try to access the elements that we store with collections with stream API. So first we will just look at a simple use of stream API. Very small example here. So let's say that we have a list called numbers. And there are five elements in this list. And let's say that we want to print these elements to the console. Well you can see over here on the left side we've got the for each loop. And let's see how this can be done with stream API. We will first need to obtain a stream from this list. Okay. So for this we'll use the stream method of the collection interface. Then we can perform aggregate operations on this stream that we obtained. For example with foreach we can access each element and print this element to the console. Now this is where the lambda expressions come into play. So first we're going to use a parameter representing each element in the list. Then we can specify how we will use the list elements with the lambda sign. Now according to this particular example we print these elements to the console. Pretty cool huh? So that's pretty much what you need to know about this stream API. What it is. What do we use it for? Now let's talk about the pipeline. So we've got a pipeline right. And this is basically a sequence of aggregate operations. That is, after we create a stream, we can perform chaining operations on it before the stream is closed. Yeah. Let me show you a quick example here, right in front of you. So after you're done creating the stream, we can make a filter using the filter method of the stream interface. And in this example a filter was made that actually obtained even numbers. So you remember right the structure inside the filter method is actually a predicate. So in other words, the filter method takes the predicate interface as a parameter. And then after the filter method, the elements obtained as a result of the filtering get printed to the console with a for each method of the stream interface, right. So in this way, the process of adding different methods to a stream according to the purpose is called a pipeline, and it's very common to use that whenever you're working with stream APIs. So with this feature, stream allows us to achieve the same result in a single line with much less code than iterators and loops. All right, let's get into this a little bit deeper. Stream API in bullet points. You ready? Stream is an interface. The stream interface is included in the Java.util dot stream package. It first appeared in our lives with Java eight, and it's one of the ways that we use to traverse collections. The stream API enables cleaner, more readable operations and parallel programming support, especially on really large data sets. We can create a stream via the stream method of the collection interface, and it allows us to obtain fast results with less code compared to iterators and loops. Now let's have a little practice with this stream API. What do you say? So here I want to create a new Java project. And let's make the name of this project be Java Stream. And the other options will remain the same as the previous ones that we've worked with. So without changing anything else, let's just click on the create button. Now I'll create a package in this project. Let the package name be stream examples. And now what I'll do is create a new Java class. And let the class name be stream examples. And lastly I'll create the main method. Good. So now here let's create a list. The type of this list will be integer. And let the name of this list be numbers. Good. So I'm going to create this list using the list method of the arrays class. And the elements of this list may be one, four, ten, three, six, one again, 15, four, again, nine, 16, and five. All right so there's the list. It's now ready. Let's go ahead and try to print the elements of this list using the stream. So first what I'll do is create an instance of the stream interface. And here you can see it's included in the Java.util dot stream package. So to create an instance of the stream interface we have to import the Java.util dot stream package. So I'll select this option and press enter. Now you know what. We'll have to specify its type as well. It's going to be the same as the type of the list. So integer and the name of this stream should be num stream. Now after the equal sign I'm going to call the stream method of the collection interface. So I write numbers dot stream. The stream method returns a stream. And now let's call the. For each method of the stream interface to print each element of the list. Now the for each method of the stream class is a void method, so it's not going to return a stream to us, right? So operations performed with methods that do not return a stream in this way. These are called terminal operations. And these operators terminate operations on the stream and produce a result. So the stream becomes unusable after this operation. You get it? Okay. Let's continue. In parentheses, I'm going to create a lambda expression. The n here represents each element of the list. After the lambda symbol, I'll call the print method. Now, did you notice our lambda expression only calls the print method? It does nothing else. So we can use a method reference here. Get it? Nice. Okay, now let's run our code. And as you can see, the elements of the list are printed to the console, just like we wanted. But guess what? We could also do these operations in a single line. So let me just delete the stream interface and its instance. Let's run the code. What the result is the same. And if you're going to use a stream like that, then you don't really need to import the stream class anymore either, do you? All right. Well remember that for the future. Now let's use some useful methods of the stream interface. So I want to first use the filter method. So for example let's let's print the even numbers of the list with the filter method. So before the for each I'm going to add the filter method. So this filter method returns a string consisting of the elements of the string that match the given predicate. Operations performed with methods that return a stream in this way are called intermediate operations, so these operators transform a stream into another stream. They're not going to terminate the stream. They only create a pipeline. See the difference? Now they exhibit lazy behavior, and that means that they're going to wait for terminal operations such as foreach to produce a result. Okay, so now that we've figured all that out, let's continue. The filter method takes a predicate. So the parameter name can be n and the condition will be n. Modulus two is equal to zero. All right let's run the code. Well there you can see we printed just the even numbers. All right, all right. Let's go ahead and use the map method. So after the filter method I'll add the map method. The map method is the stream interface returns a stream consisting of the results of applying the given function to the elements of the stream. So in other words, it gets used to convert each element to another value. And again we've got an intermediate operation. So let's say for example let's add one to all the even numbers obtained with the filtering method and convert all the elements to odd numbers you follow. So first we're going to use an operator representing each element again. Now let's increase the value of each element by one after the lambda symbol. And now we can run it and test it. We'll check it out. We have now displayed one more than the even numbers that we obtained in the previous execute operation in the console, right. So basically you can quickly perform operations on each element with the map method. So say for example you have a list of strings. You can easily calculate the length of each element with the map method. All right. Let's now continue with another method. So our next method is going to be the sorted. Method not sorted. Get your mind out of there sorted. So we sort okay. The sorted method returns a stream consisting of the elements of the stream sorted according to natural order, so the elements of the stream are not comparable. A class cast exception may be thrown when the terminal operation is executed. Now for ordered streams. The sort is stable. For unordered streams, no stability guarantees are made because, well, like we just said, this is a stateful intermediate operation. Okay, let's go ahead and run the code. All right. So now you can see the numbers sorted from smallest to largest. Now let's have a look at another intermediate operation method. This is the distinct method. So this method takes into account only one of the repeated elements in the list and then returns a stream. So this is also a stateful intermediate operation. But you got to notice there are repeated elements in our list right. You probably notice that when we were plugging it in, but now in the current output we're expecting these elements to be printed just once. So let's run it and see. There you have it. Only one of each element gets printed. Cool cool cool. So now that you got the gist of that, we've got creating a stream and performing operations on lists using the methods of the stream interface. Let's just summarize it briefly. See, most of the time our aim is to access the elements of the list and then perform some operations on them. While doing this, we can use the stream API introduced with Java eight in addition to loops and iterators. So stream is an interface and it contains many methods for operations that we can perform on lists. In fact, let's have a look at the stream interface. So check this out. We've got all kinds of useful methods here. So let's continue. We'll convert the elements of a list into a stream with the stream method of the collection interface, and then apply the stream interface method suitable for our purpose. See, the point that we need to pay attention to here is. While some of the stream interface methods are terminal operation methods. Some are actually intermediate operation methods. So in other words, terminal operation methods do not return a stream. Therefore, when we use terminal operation methods, the stream. Yeah is terminated. However, since intermediate operation methods return a stream, the stream is not going to be terminated and we can continue to use different stream methods. That's why you got to really be careful with this, right? Because after the terminal operation methods the stream is now closed. So using a different stream interface method is going to throw an illegal state exception. In fact, let's just go ahead and do that. And maybe we'll just have a much clearer picture of what it looks like. So I'm going to create a new list. And this list will consist of string elements. And let our list be a list of animals. So the first element will be cat. And the second element dog. And we'll let the third be cow. All right, now let's create a stream object. And once that's done, let's simply use the map method of the stream class to print the name of each element to the console in uppercase letters. Now we can create the parameter of the map method like this. We can also convert it to a method reference. And that's just because we're only calling a method of the string class and we're not doing anything different. Now let's print the elements to the console with a for each method of the stream interface. And now let's run the program and have a look at the output. All right. That's really good. The result is as expected. But now let's look at the exceptional case. Check it out I've used the foreach method which is a terminal operation method. Last. And therefore the stream is now terminated because the foreach method is a void method and will not return a stream. Now let's try to use a stream again after this line. So here let's try to print the name of each element to the console in lowercase letters again. All right. So the compiler is actually already started to warn us. It says that the stream that we used here is already linked or consumed. All right. So let's just run the program again. All right. So the first stream works. The elements of the list were printed in the console and lowercase letters. However we got that illegal state exception in the second stream. It says streams already been operated upon or closed. And again, that's because we ended the previous stream with one of the terminal operation methods for each. So in other words, this stream is spent. We can't use it anymore. So that's how you got to be careful when you're working with stream. All right. That's the basic logic. We're going to take a short break here, but when we come back in the next video, we're going to discuss reduction in streams. All right. I'll see you in the next video.

=== 2. Reduction Operations - Part 1 ===
And we find ourselves in the next video. Well, what are the chances? What are the odds? Hello my friends. Before you start calculating all of that, last time around, we learned what stream is how we can perform operations on lists using the stream interface. So now that means in this video we're going to learn the concept of reduction. So my friends let's get ready get to it. Here we go. So we'll first examine the example that you see right here in front of you if your eyes are still open. But do you notice we have a list of integers? Some operations were performed on the elements of this list using stream. First, odd numbers were obtained with a filter method. Then the map to int method was used to calculate the double of each element. The map to int method returns int stream instead of the normal stream. Then the average of these elements was obtained with the average method and then. See. This average was converted to double with a get as double method and transferred to the double average variable. But check it out. The average method used here is one of the stream interface methods, and it's a terminal operation method. Good so far. Now the stream interface includes many terminal operations, such as average, that combine the contents of a stream to return a single value. For example, sum, min, max, and count terminal operations that combine the contents of a stream and return a value as these methods do, are called reduction operations. Now, of course, it may return just one value or it may return a new collection. The stream interface also includes reduction operations that return a collection rather than a single value. Now, many reduction operations perform a specific task, such as finding the average of values or grouping items in a categories. However, this stream interface provides general purpose reduction operations. Reduce and collect, and we're actually going to dive into those details. Let's have a look at the reduce method of the stream interface first. So here the reduce method of the stream interface. It's a general purpose reduction operation. And we'll do a stream operation on the list that we used earlier. Now do you notice the filter method first obtains the odd numbers in the list. And then the map to int method multiplies each element by two. Then the elements are mathematically added with the sum method, and the result is then transferred to the total variable. So the sum method used here is actually a reduction operation. So now let's have a look at how this operation gets performed using the reduce method in the stream interface. The reduce method in this example takes two arguments. The first argument is identity. The identity element is both the initial value of the reduction and the default result if there are no elements in the stream. See. So in this example, the identity element is zero and this is the initial value of the sum of numbers as well as the default value if no members exist in the list of nums. The second argument is accumulator. Now the accumulator function takes two parameters a partial result of the reduction. So in this example, the sum of all processed integers so far and the next element of the stream. So in this example an integer. It returns a new partial result a3. So in this example here, the accumulator function is a lambda expression that adds two integer values and returns an integer value. So here a and b represent the integer elements to be added, respectively. The initial value is the first parameter zero. So in other words, first add zero and the first element in the stream. Then the resulting sum is always represented by the parameter a, while the next element in the stream to be added to the sum is represented by the parameter b, so all the elements are added to the previous sum respectively, and the sum result is calculated. Now also some reduction operation methods such as sum, min, max average, and string concatenation are all special cases of reduction. So summing a stream of numbers can also be expressed like this. Now I know what you're thinking. This may seem a more roundabout way to perform an aggregation compared to simply mutating a running total in a loop. Reduction operations parallelize more gracefully without needing additional synchronization and with greatly reduced risk of data races. All right. Just know that. So that's the reduce method. Let's have a look at another reduction operation method called collect. As you may have picked up in the previous example, the reduce method always returns a new value. Now the accumulator function also returns a new value every time it processes an element of a stream. So suppose that you want to reduce the elements of a stream to a more complex object, such as a collection. You might imagine that this might hinder the performance of your application, and you'd be right. So if your reduce operation involves adding elements to a collection, then every time your accumulator function processes an element, it creates a new collection that includes the element, which is where the insufficiency arrives. Wouldn't it be more efficient for you to update an existing collection instead? Well, now you're onto something. So think about in such cases using the collect method of the stream interface. Now, unlike the reduce method, which always creates a new value whenever it processes an element, the collection method modifies or mutates an existing value. So let's have a look at the example that you see in front of you. Now again, odd numbers were obtained with a filter, and then the stream consisting of odd numbers, was converted to a list with a collect method and transferred to a new list. So you see, this is one of the most basic uses of the collect method in point of fact. String concatenation, grouping and division operations can easily be done with a collect method. All right. So that's all the theory about reduction operations in streams. Let's continue to reinforce this idea with a few examples. All right. You ready to practice. Let's just work on the reduce method. And we'll create a new Java class for this. So the name of this class reduction operations with reduce. And we'll add the main method. All right. First we're going to create an integer list. So its name will be nums. Let the elements of the list be one, two, three, four and five. And we'll first find the sum of these elements using the reduce method. So the reduce method without giving an initial value using only the binary combination feature with lambda. So the reduce method is of course a terminal operation. So it returns the optional class. The optional class allows the application to work more safely by checking for null values. So, for example, if our list is an empty list, the reduce method would not be able to find an element to sum and will return a null value. That means we're going to need to take this situation into account. That's why the reduce method returns the optional class. So that means let's just transfer this result to an optional class object. The type of the optional class will be integer, because our list is of the integer type, and our operation result will also be an integer. Let's call this object sum. Now let's check to see if the result is null and if it is not null. That is, if the sum of the elements is returned. Well, let's print it to the console. And for this check we can use the is present or if present methods of the optional class. Uh, generally I prefer if present. If the result is not null, the operation we will define here will be performed right. So in other words, we can print the sum to the console. All right. So let's run that code and test it. Yeah. So you can see that some of the elements in the list gets printed to the console. The reduce method goes like this. First it adds the first two elements. Then it adds a third element to that result, then adds the next element to the new result. And it continues like this until the last element gets added. When there are no more elements to add to the previous sum, it will return the result. Now what do you say we use the reduce method with an initial value? So I'll just copy these lines and paste them below. So let's see what will happen when we add an initial value. So since we want to calculate the sum of the elements the initial value will be zero. And yeah we get a compilation error because if there are no elements in the list, since we provide an initial value, the reduce method will not return a null value anymore. So it will return an integer every time. So I want to change the type of this variable to int. Now let's change its name to sum with initial value. Now let's print the result. And I will delete the if present method. Let's run the code. Good. So you can see right. The result is the same. The difference using a starting value is that there is a value to return if the list is empty. So in this example put in zero so the result will be zero even if it is an empty list. Now we'll continue right to another example. This time we're going to try to find the result of multiplying the elements in the list with each other. So I'll copy and paste these codes. And let the variable be called element product. This time the starting value will be one. Let's run that program. All right. So we can get the result of multiplying the elements in the list by each other in this way. Now let's find the largest and smallest elements in the list. Well, first convert our list to stream. And now let's use the reduce method. And here I'll use a lambda expression again. And also I'll use the ternary operator as a control operation. Right. So with this expression the first two elements will be compared first. In other words the first operation a represents the first element and b Represents the second element. If the first element is larger, the ternary operator will produce the value true, and we'll learn that the first element is larger than the second element. But if the second element is larger, the ternary operator will return the value false, and that'll mean that the second element is larger than the first element. All right. So in the first comparison operation the larger element will be compared with the third element in the list this time. And in this way the process will continue until the comparison gets made with the last element of the list. And the largest number will then be determined. However, since we did not use a starting value, this method will still return optional. So what have we got to do? Transfer the result to an optional type object. Now again, before printing directly to the console, let's check for null with the if present method and then print the maximum value to the console. So let's test it out. All right so you can see the largest element gets printed. Now let's figure out how to print the smallest value. You can probably guess it's pretty easy to get that. It's actually just enough to change the ternary condition. All right, let's run it. And now we've got the smallest number in the list. Let's just change our example a little bit though. Let's create a Java class that represents employee information. So let's call the class employee. Let's create instance variables in this class that represent the employee's name, gender and salary. String name and salary. Let's also create an enum class for gender. Public enum sex. Constants will be male and female. And we'll create an instance variable from this enum class. Now let's create the parameterized constructor. Let's create the getter methods. All right so we've got our employee class ready. Let's just create a list of employees in the main method. So I'll just convert these codes to the comment line. Now let's create a list. Its type will be employee. Let's call the list employees. Let's call the first employee. David. Salary. Let's give him 3000. Gender. Male. And we'll duplicate this line four times. Let's make the second employee. Mary. Salary is 2500. All right. Maybe 3500. Whatever you want. So we'll make that female. Third employee. Clerk. Salary is 3500. Male. Fourth employee. Andy. Salary is 4500 male. Fifth employee Sara. Salary is. Yes. She's new. We'll give her 2000 female. All right, so now the list is ready. Now let's find the highest salary employee with a reduced method. Now the comparison parameters b, e1 and e2 after the lambda symbol. Let's just make a comparison between the two salaries processed with the help of the ternary operator. Good. So now we're going to transfer the result to the optional object. We'll check for null with the if present method, and then print the name and salary of the employee with the highest salary to the console. Let's go ahead and run the code and test it out. All right so there you see we've successfully printed the highest salary employee. And of course we obtained the employee with the highest salary. And if you want to, you can go ahead and get the salaries of all the employees with the map method. And then you can just directly process these salaries. But for an example, let's calculate the total salary of the employees with a reduced method. But this time let's process only the salaries with the map method. You see how to do that? We can use a starting value to calculate the total salary. So therefore the result will definitely not be null this time. So in other words, we can just transfer the result to a variable of the type int. We'll get the salary of each employee with a map method. And let's calculate the total of the salaries with a reduce method. All right, so now we're ready to print the total salaries to the console. Let's test it out. All right. So we've got the total salary of the all the employees. And finally we can use the reduce method to combine the strings. So in other words let's combine the names of the employees with the reduce method. And then try to print them to the console as a string string concatenated names. Equals employees dot stream dot map. So I want to call the Getname method of the employee class using method reference. Now use the reduce method with the empty string starting value. The parameters will be name one and name two. Then after the lambda symbol, I'll add name two to name one with a space between them. And now let's print the result to the console. Let's test it out. Now you know what? You would be correct to use the trim method here because there will be a space in front of the first employees name and the first merge, right. Let's test it out. All right. So now you see, we printed the names of all the employees to the console as string using the reduce method. All right. So you may have actually noticed that this is the reduce method that we use within the scope of reduction operations. So let's wrap this up. Then the reduce method in the stream interface performs a reduction operation. And it allows us to obtain a single result by combining the elements of the stream. This is very useful for mathematical operations or even more complex combination operations. So why don't we go ahead and take a short break here? And when we come back in the next video, we're going to do some examples of the collect method because that performs yet another reduction operation. All right. See you on the other side.

=== 3. Reduction Operations - Part 2 ===
Well. Hello my friends. Welcome back. So previously we examined the reduce method which is one of the reduction operations. So in this video what do you say we examine the collect method. That's yet another reduction operation. I'm sure you recall the feature that distinguishes the collect method from the reduce method is that it performs a change on the existing list instead of returning a value. So let's get to it. We're going to do some practice using the collect method. So we're going to start off by creating a new Java class. Its name will be Reduction operations with collect. And again I'll add the main method. So we'll get started with a few simple examples. We'll learn the working principle of the collect method and then increase a level. Level up my friends. So in its most basic form, the collect method can be used to collect elements in a stream into a list or set. So that means in our first example, we're going to try to use a collect method to convert a list into another list. So we'll create a string list of names. Let's say the first element is David. Then we've got the second Clark. The third will be Mary, the fourth will be Sarah. And let's make the last one Andy. So we're going to collect the elements in this list whose length is greater than four, and those will go into a new list. Now, do you notice the collect method has different overloaded methods? So this method with three parameters is generally more useful for parallel stream operations. But we're going to get to that in the next video. We're going to examine the other methods in order. Okay. So that's why I'm writing here. Collectors dot two list in parentheses. So the collectors class is an implementation of collector that implements various useful reduction operations, such as accumulating elements into collections, summarizing elements according to various criteria. ET cetera, et cetera. Now, of course, it's also possible to do this operation directly with the two list method in the stream interface. But really, that wouldn't teach you anything, now, would it? Let's continue with the collect method. Of course, since this will be returning a list, we'll transfer the result to a new list. Let's name the list collected names. So now let's print our new list to the console. Let's run it and see. All right, now can you see we've got a new list consisting of names whose length is greater than four. Now let's try to obtain a set in pretty much the same way. So we're going to copy these two lines. This will now be a set interface. We're going to name this set collected name set. Now this time the method we will use will be the two set method. And now let's edit the print method. Yeah. So before we go running any code let's add another element named Mary to our list. Of course you remember the distinguishing feature of the set interface was that it contains only one of the same element. Therefore, although the length of this Mary element is greater than four, we're only going to see one Mary in the output since we converted it to a set. You ought to pay attention to that. Okay, let's run it and test it out. And now you see elements whose length is greater than four get printed. And duplicate elements were not allowed. Now we'll move on to another example. So this time let's try to do a string join using the joining method of the collector's class. I'm going to use any filter this time. I'll call the joining method of the collectors class in parenthesis. The joining method returns a collector that concatenates the input elements separated by the specified delimiter in encounter order. Now, if you want, let's go ahead and add a comma between each element? So this will be the delimiter parameter and it gets added between the elements during the join. Now of course, since this expression will return a string, we got to transfer the result to a string. Yeah. Now it's also possible to do this with the join method of the string class, but for now we're going to continue with the collect method. So we'll finally print the string we obtained to the console. Now you see it's been converted to a string by adding commas between the elements. Now what do you say we use the overloaded version of the joining method with three parameters? The first parameter of the joining method with three parameters is again the delimiter. The second parameter represents the prefix to be added to the beginning of the string to be obtained. And the third parameter represents the suffix of the string to be obtained. Now let's use open square brackets as the prefix. We're going to use closed square brackets as the suffix. Now let's see what happens when we run our code again. All right. So you can see here. This time the prefix and suffix have been added. So what do you say we now do some grouping and partitioning operations with the collect method? Yeah. It sounds like a real good idea, huh? Now it is possible, of course, to use a collect method to group the elements in the stream according to a certain Tyrion. But for this, we're going to use the grouping by method of the collector's class. In the collector method. So let's say, for example, we'll try to group the names in the list according to their lengths. Okay. So I'll call the grouping by method of the collector's class in parentheses. And with this method we can actually specify the criteria that we want to group the list elements according to. For example we'll group by their lengths. Okay. So the grouping by method returns a result in a map. Hopefully you remember the map interface was used for the key value mappings. So here the grouping criterion represents the key and the groups represent the value. All right. Also the groups, that is the value always going to return as a list. Therefore, we should transfer the result to a map object whose key type is integer and whose value type is a list of the type string you follow. Okay. The reason why the key is integer is that our grouping criterion is according to the lengths of the elements, and since the lengths are also integer, the key type is integer. All right. Let's go ahead and print this map to the console. And there you can see the elements of the list are grouped according to their lengths. Now let's try to partition the elements of the list into two groups according to a certain condition. So we'll use the partitioning by method of the collector's class. And this will partition the list elements into two groups according to a particular condition. For example, let's partition the elements into two groups as those with length greater than four and those without. Very simple. For this, I'll create a predicate here. This method also returns a map. Now this time the key type will be boolean, because those with lengths greater than four and those without will be grouped as true and false, right? So the value will again be a list of the type string. Let's print this to the console and test it. All right. So you can see the elements of the list are divided into two groups. We've got the length that are greater than four and those without. Terrific. Now let's have a look at a different example. So it is possible to collect results in different data structures or formats with this collect method. So for example we can collect a special collection type with two collection. That's the method of the collectors class. So for example let's try to collect elements whose length is greater than four into a linked list. So we're going to use the two collection method of the collectors class for this conversion process. And let's create a new linked list with a lambda expression in parentheses. Now of course, since lambda only calls a to construct her here. Wouldn't it be more correct to write it as a method reference? Okay, now, since this expression will return a new linked list, let's transfer the result to a linked list. Now linked list is a collection class. It implements both a list interface and the dequeue interface. Now let's go ahead and print this to the console and test it out. And now you can see the elements whose length is greater than four were converted to a linked list and printed for your convenience to the console. Hey you know what. Let's let's do another example. So we can also use a collect method for operations such as mathematical addition or average calculation. So I want to show you an example of how to do that. Now you remember, right, we created an employee class in the previous video. And in this class we modeled the name, salary and gender information the employees. So why don't we go ahead and use both grouping and mathematical addition together. So in other words, we're going to group the employees by gender and calculate the total salary of the employees in each group. Of course, we're going to first need the list of employees. And we can get this from the class we created for the reduce method. All right. So now we'll group the employees by gender. And this time I'll add a second parameter to this method and this will be a collector. So in other words, I will call the summing init method of the collectors class. I'll call the get salary method of the employee class as a parameter. Now of course this will return to us a map. The key type will be gender this time. The value type will be integer. Now let's print this to the console. Good. So now you can see employees get divided into two groups based on gender, and the total salary of the employees in each group gets printed to the console. Now, I wonder if you noticed we use the summing method to find in the collector's class, but we can also create our own collector if we want. Yeah. In fact, why don't we go ahead and do an example of this? I'll pretend you want to do it now. Of course you do. First we're going to create a Java class called Salary Collector. And we're going to define some variables and methods in this class. Our first variable will be a variable named total, representing the total salary. And what's its initial value? Zero. Now the other variable will be a variable named count, representing the number of employees, and its initial value will also be zero. Now, before we go creating our methods, let's create the getter method for the total variable. Yeah. So now let's create a method that adds the salaries of each employee to the previous total. Then counts how many times it does this. To go ahead and name the method. I'm going to name it Add Salary, but it's generally called. Except just remember that in your back pocket somewhere. So this method is going to take an int variable representing the salary of each employee as a parameter. This method will add the salary it receives as a parameter with a previous value of the total variable, and transfer the result to the total variable again. Now we're also going to increment the count variable by one to understand how many times it does this right. Good. So now that method's ready let's go ahead and create our other method. This method will be the combine method. And it's going to take an object of this class as a parameter. Now what would be the purpose of this method. Yeah. Let me just, uh, explain this for a second. So this method gets used to combine the results of two different salary collector objects during parallel operations. So when you've got parallel operations like parallel stream, which are used in stream APIs, the list gets divided into various parts to increase the speed of the operation, and separate operations are then performed on each part. So in this case, a separate salary collector object gets created for each part. Then at the end of the operation, the results of the operations performed on these parts are combined into a single salary collector with a combined method. So that's why in this method, we're going to combine the total values calculated in two different streams, and then transfer the result to the total variable again. So in other words we should do this operation. Total ad and assignment. Operator. Salary collector dot total. So we also need to combine the total number of employees in the streams in a similar way. Count add and assignment operator salary collector dot count. All right. So our class that will calculate the total of the salaries is now ready. Why don't we go ahead and move on to the main method. Now let's convert the employees list to a stream. And let's get the salaries of the employees with a map method. Now let's collect the salaries with a collect method. This time the collect method will take three parameters. First parameter is supplier. So the supplier is a factory function. It constructs new instances. Right now for the collect operation it creates instances of the result container. So in this example it will be a new instance of the salary collector class. The second parameter is the accumulator. The accumulator function incorporates a stream element into a result container. So in this example it will modify the salary collector result container by incrementing the count variable by one and adding to the total member variable the value of the stream element, which is an integer representing the salary of a particular member. So for the second parameter, I will call the accept method of the salary collector class. Are you with me? And the last parameter is the combiner. Now the combiner function takes two result containers and merges their contents. So in this example, it will modify a salary collector result container by incrementing the count variable by the count member variable of the other salary collector instance, and adding to the total member variable the value of the other salary collector Instance's total member variable. Did you get all that? So for the third parameter, I want to call the combine method of the salary collector class. Now as a result, the supplier is a lambda expression or a method reference as opposed to a value like the identity element and the reduce operation. Now the accumulator and the combiner functions do not return a value. We can use a collect operations with parallel streams, which we're going to cover in the next video. But if we were to run the collect method with a parallel stream, then the JDK creates a new thread. Whenever the combiner function creates a new object, such as a salary collector object for this particular example. So that's why we don't actually have to worry about synchronization. Don't worry, you'll get it. Now the parameters of the collect method are done. Let's talk about the value returned by the collect method. So the collect method generally returns either a collection or an object. For this example it returns a salary collector object again. And that's because at the beginning a salary collector object is created with a supplier parameter. So this object has updated the salaries by collecting them, and the partial results have been combined with a combined method. So therefore the result is actually a salary collector object. All right. Now let's go ahead and access the get total method of the salary collector class using this object and print the total salary to the console. So we can go ahead and run the code. And there you can see we are able to print the total salary right there in front of you. Now we can also do grouping here if we were so inclined. So in other words, we can group employees by gender and calculate the total salary amount for each gender. Let's just copy the codes here and comment the previous codes out. Yeah. So we're going to first delete the map method here. For the collect method let's go ahead and first call the grouping by method. And the first parameter will specify the grouping criterion that is employee method reference get gender. The second parameter will first be a mapping. So in other words after grouping by gender we need to get the salaries. And for this let's use the mapping method of the collector's class. Now the mapping method is going to take two parameters. The first will be salaries. The second is a special collector. For this we can use the of method of the collector class. Yeah. See the of method gets used to define a special collector. Its first parameter will again be the supplier. Its second parameter will be the accumulator. Then the last parameter will be the combiner. But this time we do need to write it with a lambda expression. And that's because when we use it this way, we need to return the salary collector object. So let's create a lambda with two parameters. Let's add the second parameter to the first parameter with a combine method. And let's return the result. And yes, of course, since we are doing a mapping operation, this operation will return a map to us. The key type of the map will be sex. The value type will again be salary collector. Now let's print the result to the console using the key and value values in this map. And this time I'll get the key and value with the for each. So let the lambda parameters be g representing gender and s representing salary. All right. So we can print the gender and total salary with a print method. And let's go ahead and run the code. All right. So there you see, we grouped the list by gender and obtained the total salary for each gender. We also used our own collector for this operation. So there you have it, my friends. We've gone through a few different scenarios using the collect method from the reduce operations. Now, of course, it might be a little confusing at first, but I really do think you'll understand when you use it just one more time. So we're going to take a short break here. And when we come back though we're going to talk about parallel streams. All right. So see you in the next video.

=== 4. Parallelism and Parallel Stream ===
And we are back. Hello my friends. So previously we experienced the reduction operations with the reduce and collect methods. So I figure in this video we should talk about parallelism. That is parallel stream. Okay. Parallel computing just involves dividing a problem into subproblems, solving those problems simultaneously. In other words, in parallel with each subproblem running in a separate thread and then combining the results of the solutions to the subproblems. So Java SE provides the fork join framework, which enables you to more easily implement parallel computing in your applications. But you know something with this framework, you've got to specify how the problems are subdivided or partitioned with aggregate operations. The Java Runtime performs this partitioning and combining of solutions for you. Now, one difficulty in implementing parallelism in applications that use collections is a collections are not thread safe, which means that multiple threads cannot manipulate a collection without introducing thread interference or even memory consistency errors. So the collections framework provides synchronization wrappers which add automatic synchronization to an arbitrary collection, making it thread safe. However, before you get too carried away, synchronization introduces thread contention, and you're going to want to avoid thread contention because it prevents threads from running in parallel. Yeah, it sounds like it might be talking out of both sides of its mouth, but you got to remember, aggregate operations and parallel streams allow you to implement parallelism with non thread safe collections, provided that you do not modify the collection while you're operating on it. We're going to get into all this. Don't even worry about it. But you got to make a note that parallelism is not automatically faster than performing operations serially, although it can be if you have enough data and processor cores. While aggregate operations enable you to more easily implement parallelism, it is still your responsibility to determine if your application is suitable for parallelism. So that is what it's all about. Why it's needed. Let's have a look at how we can actually be using it in our streams. Of course we can execute streams in serial or parallel. So when a stream executes in parallel, the Java runtime partitions a stream into multiple sub streams. Aggregate operations iterate over and process the sub streams in parallel and then combine the results. Now when we create a stream, it's always a serial stream unless otherwise specified. To create a parallel stream, we use the parallel stream method of the collection. Now alternatively, we can invoke the operation parallel method of the base stream, but we are going to prefer the parallel stream method. So let's take for example the statement that you see calculates the average of all odd numbers in parallel. The use of the parallel stream method here allows the operations to be run simultaneously on different threads. So now we got to talk about concurrent reduction. Now I wonder if you remember we learned about reduction operations in our previous video. Okay. You remember. Of course you do. For example, imagine we have a list of names and we wrote the following codes to group the elements of this list according to their lengths. Well, now let's have a look at the version of this done with parallel stream. So let's actually examine this code. So you can see right. The parallel stream method is used here instead of the stream method. And the grouping by concurrent method was used instead of the grouping by method. Now also notice see here. Instead of a map, the concurrent map was returned. So this is actually called a concurrent reduction Java runtime performs a concurrent reduction if all of the following are true for a particular pipeline that contains the collect operation. First, the stream is parallel, right? So when you look at the example that we're using here, it is possible to say that this is already a parallel stream because the parallel stream method was used instead of the stream method. Second, the parameter of the collect operation. The collector has the characteristic concurrent. To determine the characteristics of a collector, we use the characteristics method of the collector class. So this condition is provided by the grouping by concurrent method that we use. Because by using the grouping by concurrent method, we perform a concurrent group collection Operation, so the grouping by concurrent method actually guarantees that the collector it uses has the concurrent property. Now third, either the stream is unordered or the collector has a characteristic unordered. So to ensure that the stream is unordered, we use the unordered method of the base stream class. Now, when the grouping by concurrent method is used, the collector does not guarantee the ordering rule across parallel threads and as the unordered characteristic follow. Well, let's summarize that the parallelism of the stream is already provided by using the parallel stream method. The concurrent characteristic is provided by the grouping by concurrent method. This method automatically uses a concurrent collector. And finally, the unordered ness of the stream is provided implicitly by grouping by concurrent. However, you may also make the stream unordered manually with the unordered method. So when these three items are combined, the concurrent reduction is provided in Java. All right. Now let's have a look at the ordering in parallel streams. So ordering is actually an extremely important concept in parallel streams because threads running in parallel can process data in either order or out of order. But you see determining this can affect the behavior and performance of stream operations. The order in which a pipeline processes the elements of a stream depends on whether the stream is executed in serial or in parallel. The source of the stream and intermediate operations. So since parallel streams are using different threads, the order in which the elements are added to the list is not guaranteed to be preserved. So if ordering is not important to you, making the stream unordered can improve performance. Now, in unordered streams, the order in which the results arrive is not going to be important when the data is processed in parallel, right? Since there is no order guarantee in parallel stream operations, it can be faster because the threads combine the data without any ordering requirement. So far so good. Well, let's have a look at this example. So just imagine that we have a list of numbers from 1 to 5. And notice that the elements are added to the list in order. Okay. Now let's imagine that we're printing the elements of this list to the console with a parallel stream. So since the parallel stream will perform this operation using different threads, and there's no guarantee that the threads will return the result at the same time, the output may be random, for example, as you see here. So hmm, can we work with a parallel stream and still want the order to be preserved? Well, now of course the answer is yes, but you got to think it through. Let's consider this previous example. So this time we're going to use parallel streams again. But let's say that the we want to keep the order the way it is. In this case we can use for each ordered instead of for each. Yeah. So in this case the output will be according to the order in which the elements were added to the list. Of course, this does have some disadvantages. Remember I said think it through. Remember that forcing the order to be preserved in parallel operations will reduce efficiency. So now let's talk about these issues that we need to be careful about when we're working with streams. So using streams correctly in our programs. Paying attention to performance optimizations is of course a very important issue. There are some issues that we need to pay attention to while we're doing this. And these are avoiding side effects, using laziness, avoiding interferences, and avoiding stateful lambda expressions. So we're going to summarize all this in a few sentences and then practice our parallel streams. It's basically a side effect is when an operation changes an external state in an unexpected or undesirable Desirable way. So since stream operations are based on functional programming principles, it's really important to avoid side effects, wouldn't you think? Now, side effect free operations, namely pure functions, should be used in streams. For example, after inserting a list into a stream, directly transferring the elements in the stream to a different list creates a side effect. So if we look at the example here, the list of numbers is inserted into the stream, and then each element is multiplied by two and added to a second list in the stream. The side effect here is making changes to the second list in the stream. So in other words adding elements. So let's have a look at the correct usage. First, a map should be used to obtain the multiplied form of each element by two as a stream. Then this stream should be converted to a list. See, it's kind of simple, right? But you got to think it through. Laziness. Streams use lazy evaluation. So in other words, intermediate operations are not executed immediately. The stream result is calculated only when terminal operations are called. Thus performance optimization is achieved. Now as a result, in streams where terminal operation is not used, the result is still a stream. Terminal operations together are now converted to a stream result. So what about interference? Interference occurs if changes are made to the data structure during stream operations. Streams basically work on static data structures, that is, adding or deleting an element to the list while operating on a stream creates an error. See. So I have a look at this code here. We see that an element is being deleted from the list in the stream. This causes the program to crash at that point. So in these kinds of operations, a concurrent modification exception or null pointer exception is usually thrown. So because of this no changes should be made to the data set during the stream operation. Now you can also see the correct way to do it here. Now you see no changes are made to the data structure. A new list is created as a result of the filtering operation. Lambda expressions and streams should generally be stateless. That just means that they should work without depending on an external state. However, it's possible to use stateful lambda expressions, but this can cause problems during parallel operations. So these kinds of operations should be thread safe and should be used with caution. Now let's have a look at this example. See here. The result list is an external state and is not thread safe since it works with a parallel stream. Threads running in parallel can access and append to the result list simultaneously, and that is just going to lead to inconsistent results. You see how that works. So instead it's better to use it like this. And then in this example of course the lambda expression does not intervene in an external state, and the result is appended to a collection in a thread safe manner. All right, my friend. So now that we know all of this, let's do some practice. So we're going to create a new Java class named Parallel Stream. Examples. Let's add the main method again. Now to understand parallel stream, let's first do a simple example. Let's create a list containing numbers from 1 to 10. Now let's put this list into a serial stream first. Let's print the elements of this list to the console with for each. All right, so let's run the code and see the result. So what you're looking at here is the output is the same as the order of the elements in the list. Okay. So now let's use a parallel stream instead of a stream. Let's run that. Okay. So now you can see the order of the elements of the list was not preserved because we used a parallel stream. And this allowed the operations to be done in different threads at the same time. Since the time it takes for the threads to do their work is going to vary. There is no guarantee that an output will be obtained in the same order as the order of the elements in the list. So this is the basic logic of parallel stream. Why don't we now do an example of concurrent reduction. So let's for example Collect this list of numbers into two groups as odd and even numbers, and we will use parallel stream for this operation. Now remember we were using the collect method for grouping and this method was a reduction operation method. We were using the grouping by method of the collectors class and parentheses. But this time we're going to use the grouping by concurrent method. Now let's create a classifier function for grouping. Yeah. So normally the grouping by method would return us a map. But the grouping by concurrent method returns us a concurrent map. Therefore we're going to need to transfer the result to a concurrent map. And since a grouping will be according to whether the number is odd or even. The type of the key is going to be boolean, right? So in other words, according to the classification function, evens will be collected in the true group and odds will be collected in the false group. Also, since there will be a list containing numbers in each group, the type of value will be a list of type integer. Now let's print this to the console. All right. So let's run it and see the result. We'll check it out. The grouping process was successful. But do you notice the order of the elements is different? Because we used both parallel streams and the grouping by concurrent method for grouping. Okay, so now let's examine this code within the scope of concurrent reduction. So Java applies a concurrent reduction process to pipelines that contain the collect method. And when we look at it from this perspective there is a collect method. And this is correct. Another condition for concurrent reduction is that the stream must be parallel. Well this condition is also provided by using a parallel stream. Good. The third condition is that the collector used in the collect method must have the concurrent characteristic. So let's just have a look. See whether it really has a concurrent characteristic or not. So for this we'll need to use a collector's characteristic method. And let's take the following expression inside the collect method and paste it to the line below. Now of course we'll need to change the function. For example, let the result be an expression like true and the function here doesn't matter right now. Right. So for example we can even write Java here. Like okay now let's apply the characteristic method to it. And of course the characteristic method returns a set. Therefore let's transfer the result to a set. Also the type of this set will be collector dot characteristic. So let's print that to the console. Now let's run it. So as you can see, one of the characteristics that grouping by concurrent has is concurrent. So therefore the third condition is also met. Now the last condition was that either the stream should be unordered or the collector should have the unordered characteristic. Did you notice one of the characteristics of grouping by concurrent is unordered? Therefore, the last condition is also met. Now, in addition to all that, we can make sure that the stream is unordered with the unordered method. So in other words, we can add the unordered method after the parallel stream, and. This method will guarantee that the stream is unordered. But my friends, pay attention to this. Let's say, for example, we used stream instead of parallel stream. What do you think? Is it going to be a concurrent reduction? If you say no. Well, you got it right. Because even though the unordered method is used after the stream, one of the conditions is that the stream should be a parallel stream. In this case, this is not a parallel stream operation. Only the output is ensured to be unordered. Also, you got to pay attention to this. First, let's convert this to a parallel stream. Okay. Now let's convert this to the grouping by method. So is this a concurrent reduction? If you say no you got it right again. Because in this case the collector does not have the concurrent characteristic. So you should pay attention to these situations in concurrent reduction operations. Now let's have a look at the ordering operations. First we're going to print this list to the console using Serial stream. Let's print the elements side by side with a space between them. And let's use an empty print line method to move the cursor to the next line. Finally, let's add a title. Now let's print the elements of the list in reverse using the comparator class and the sort method. So we're going to first create a comparator of type integer. Now the purpose of this comparator will be to reverse a list order. Therefore after the equals I'll call the reverse order method of the comparator class. Now let's apply the sort method to our list and pass the comparator object as a parameter. Now let's print the final version of our list to the console. Yes. Now let's print the elements of our current list to the console using parallel stream. Good good good. So let's apply the parallel stream once more to. Therefore, let's copy and paste these codes. And finally let's use the for each ordered method with a parallel stream. All right. Now we can run the code and test it out. So let's examine the output. The first pipeline prints the elements of the list numbers in order that they were added to the list. The second pipeline prints the elements of list numbers after it's sorted by the method sort. And the third and fourth pipelines print the elements of the list in an apparently random order. So remember that stream operations use internal iteration when processing elements of a stream, and consequently when you execute a stream in parallel. The Java compiler and runtime is going to determine the order in which to process the streams elements, just to maximize the benefits of parallel computing. Unless otherwise specified by the stream operation, the fifth pipeline uses the method for each ordered, which processes the elements of the stream in the order specified by its source, regardless of whether you executed the stream in serial or parallel. But note, though, that you may lose the benefits of parallelism if you use operations like for each ordered with parallel streams. And you know the reasons why. If you don't go back and start this video from the beginning. Okey doke my friends. So that's a good look into parallel stream ordering operations. So we've actually finished the parallel stream as well. So I know that's going to be useful for you. Keep it in mind as we move on to the next video. I'll see you on the other side.
