=== 1. Introduction to Thread Coordination ===
Well hello there and welcome back. So last time we were talking about high level APIs. So in this video we're going to talk about thread coordination in Java. This is essential when you're talking about multiple threads who need to communicate or work together. We're going to cover inter-thread communication Java concurrency utilities as well as thread local storage. So just a few words about this diagram, because this diagram actually illustrates the concept of thread coordination and communication using a semaphore as a central synchronization mechanism. Now. Let me just explain. So a semaphore is a concurrency control mechanism that restricts a number of threads that can access a shared resource at a given time. The box labeled semaphore in the diagram has numbered slots okay 01234. Each of these slots represent a permit or token. The threads must acquire to access the shared resource. So when a thread wants to access the shared resource, it needs to acquire one of the available permits. If no permits are available, the thread will have to wait until the permit is released by another thread. Follow and for the threads. The diagram shows multiple threads that are attempting to access the shared resource protected by the semaphore. Now each thread follows a cycle of like waiting to acquire a permit from the semaphore before accessing the shared resource. Releasing the permit back to the semaphore once it's done using the shared resource allows other threads to proceed. Then we're going to have to talk about thread coordination flow wait phase. When a thread wants to use the shared resource, it checks if a permit is available in the semaphore. If all permits are occupied, meaning the resource is in use by the maximum allowed number of threads. The thread will wait until a permit becomes available. The release phase is. After a thread finishes its task with a shared resource, it releases the permit back to the semaphore, signalling that the resource is now available for another waiting thread. So he might come across a situation where a system has a limited number of database connections. We'll say five, in this case represented by the five slots in the semaphore. Multiple threads. Want to access a database? Of course. So if a thread gets a permit it can access a database. Once it finishes using the database, it releases a permit. Now other threads that were waiting for access can now acquire the released permit and proceed. There you go, my friends. That's all about thread coordination. And when we come back in the next video, we're going to talk about Inter-thread communication. We'll also do some more examples in IntelliJ. See you next time.

=== 2. Inter-thread communication ===
Well hello everybody. Welcome back. So in that previous video we were talking about thread coordination. So that means in this video we'll be talking about inter thread communication using IntelliJ. But first we need to have a little chat about inter thread communication. You see when multiple threads are working together, there are times when one thread might need to pause execution and wait for another thread to complete its task. This is where Inter-thread communication comes in. Now in Java, threads can communicate using the wait, notify and notify all methods which are part of the object class. These are the methods that are used to coordinate execution between threads that are working on shared resources. All right. So let's talk about how they work when a thread calls. Weight. It releases the lock on the object it's holding and enters a waiting state. The thread will stay in this state until another thread calls. Notify or notify all on the same object. See notify wakes up one waiting thread. The thread will then attempt to reacquire the lock on the object and continue execution, and then notify all wakes up all waiting threads, but they're going to compete to acquire the lock and proceed with their execution. So here I open up IntelliJ and I'm going to create a new project named Producer Consumer Example here. So we're going to solve a classic Multithreading problem. This is the producer consumer problem. Okay, now in this problem, two threads a producer and a consumer share a resource like in our case, a buffer. The producer adds items to the buffer and the consumer removes items. Pretty simple so far. But the key is ensuring that they coordinate properly so that the producer doesn't add data when the buffer is full and the consumer doesn't try to remove data when the buffer is empty, right. Okay. So we define a shared buffer where the data is the resource being shared between the producer and the consumer. The Boolean has data. Flag gets used to keep track of whether the buffer is full. For example, data is available for consumption. Then the produce method simulates the action of the producer, adding data to the shared buffer. Now the method is also synchronized so that only one thread can access it at a time. The while has data loop ensures that the producer waits when the buffer is full. The wait method pauses the producer thread until it's notified by the consumer. Then once the data is produced, as data is set to true and notify is called to wake up the consumer thread that's been waiting to consume the data. So the consume method allows the consumer to retrieve the data from the shared buffer. And here we've got the While no equals has data loop, this makes the consumer wait if there's no data to consume, and it'll wait until the producer notifies that it's got data available. So once the data is consumed, has data get set to false, indicating the buffer is now empty and the consumer calls notify to wake up the producer thread. All right. So that's how the buffer works. Let's see how to create the producer and consumer Threads and start them in our main method. So what we'll do is create an instance of shared buffer that both a producer and consumer will use. The producer thread generates five values, 0 to 4, and calls producer to add each value to the shared buffer. We use Thread.sleep pudding 500. To simulate a delay, which helps us to see the synchronization in action. The consumer thread calls consume to retrieve and process a data from the shared buffer. And we use Thread.sleep pudding 800 to simulate a longer time delay for consumption than for production. In. This will demonstrate how the wait notify methods help the threads wait for each other. So we start both a producer and consumer threads. The producer produces the data and the consumer consumes it all while coordinating their actions using wait and notify. The producer starts and produces a value, places it in the buffer, and then waits until the consumer consumes it. The consumer consumes a value. Set has data, equals false, and notifies the producer to produce the next value. Then this process will repeat until all values are produced and consumed. So when you run this code, you're going to see the output where the producer and consumer coordinate with each other. And this ensures that the producer only produces when the buffer is empty and the consumer only consumes when the buffer has data. All right. So there you go. That's how to implement producer consumer problems. In the next video we're going to learn how to implement locks and conditions using IntelliJ. I'll see you on the other side.

=== 3. Locks and Conditions ===
Well, how do everyone? In the previous video we wrote code in IntelliJ. So I figure in this video we need to write code for locks and conditions using IntelliJ. All right let's get to it. So here I'm opening up IntelliJ. And I want to create a class named Shared Buffer with lock. So what's the purpose of lock and condition. Well you remember previously we used synchronize to control access to the shared buffer and wait and notify for thread communication. However, lock and condition actually provide more granular control, allowing things like multiple condition variables for complex scenarios, more flexibility with explicit locking and unlocking, as well as the ability to implement fair locking policies. So here I will create data. And this is the shared resource between the producer and the consumer. And I want to create a has data to check if the buffer has data. For example whether the producer has placed any data for the consumer. And I will create a reentrant lock object. So a reentrant lock is used to lock the buffer when either the producer or consumer is accessing it. Create condition object. And lock dot new condition. The condition is used for thread signaling. It allows threads to wait and signal when appropriate, similar to wait and notify, But more flexible. Lock dot lock. The producer locks the buffer before accessing it, ensuring no other thread can modify it at the same time. Condition dot await. If the buffer already has data, the producer waits using a wait and this replaces wait in the previous version. Conditions signal. After producing data, the producer signals the consumer using signal, which is similar to notify. And this tells the consumer that new data is available for consumption. And finally block. So we always call lock unlock in a finally block to make sure that the lock is released, even if an exception occurs. And this ensures that we avoid deadlocks or locking issues. Locked lock the consumer locks the buffer before accessing it to ensure exclusive access. Conditional wait. The consumer waits if the buffer is empty using a weight instead of weight. The consumer thread will be paused until the producer signals it. Condition. Signal. After consuming the data, the consumer calls signal to notify the producer that the buffer is empty and ready for new data. Locked. Unlock. The lock is released after the consumer is done, ensuring other threads can access the buffer. So we create an instance of shared buffer with lock that both a producer and consumer threads will use. For producer thread, while the producer generates values from 0 to 4, adding them to the shared buffer. And we use Thread.sleep to simulate the time delays between producing and consuming. Consumer thread. The consumer retrieves values from the buffer. We start the producer and consumer threads, letting them run Concurrently. The producer produces data and the consumer consumes it in coordination using lock and condition mechanisms. Executive flow. The producer produces values and waits if the buffer is full. The consumer consumes values and waits if the buffer is empty. They use conditions await and conditions signal in order to signal each other when it's time to produce or consume, and both threads work in synchronization. Thanks to the lock mechanism. So when you run the code, you'll see output like this on the console. Well, thank you very much for your attention. See you next time.
