=== 1. Section Overview ===
Well hello my friends. Welcome back. So check it out. We're here with a new section. And in this section we're going to focus on date and time in Java. So let's just run down the topics that we're going to cover in this section. So first we're going to well we're going to learn all about the calendar class. Then we'll talk about the local date class. Next we'll have a little chat about the local time class. Then we'll talk about the local date time class. Then we'll talk about the period class. And last up we're going to learn the date time formatting. Sound good? Yeah. All right I'll see you in the next video.

=== 2. Calendar Class ===
All right, my friends. Welcome. So here we are. And we're going to talk a little bit about the calendar class. Because there are actually some classes in the Java programming language where we perform date and time operations. So while the date class in the Java.util package was used in the very first versions of Java after Java 1.1, the parameterized constructors of this class were deprecated and replaced by the calendar class, so the calendar class is actually available in the Java.util package. The calendar class happens to be an abstract class. Therefore, we cannot use a constructor to create an instance from itself. Instead, we can use the static method calendar dot get instance to instantiate and implement a subclass. So calendar dot Getinstance. Returns a calendar instance based on the current time in the time zone with the default locale. Also, the calendar class is mutable, and this just means that calendar objects can be modified once created. That's why they're mutable. That's just a little bit of information about the calendar class. Why don't we just do some practice? Let's get to work. I'll create a new Java project and the name of this project can be date time operations. And now I want to create a new package and class in this project. And the package name will be date time. Examples. Why not. And we'll just let the class name be calendar class example. And yeah. So let's now create an instance of the calendar class. Calendar. Calendar equals calendar dot get instance. Now we can do some operations using the calendar reference. So first I want to get the current year. Okay. Calendar dot get in parentheses I'll write calendar dot year. So if you're paying attention year is a static field defined in the calendar class. It returns the current year as an integer. Therefore we can transfer this to an int variable. Now at the beginning of this line I'll write int year equals. In fact, there are also different static fields where we can get values such as month, week, day, and so on and so forth. So let's get them all. So now I'll get the current month and month equals calendar dot get calendar month. And now I'll get the week of the year and week of year equals calendar dot get. Calendar dot week of year. Also, we can get the week of the month and week of month. Equals calendar dot get. Calendar dot. Week of month. Hey, while we're here, let's get the day of the year. It's all copy and paste this line and this will be day of year. And this field will be day of year. And now I'll get the day of the month. I'll duplicate this line. This will be day of month. And this will be day of month. And lastly I'll get the day of week. This field will be day of week. So if you want, why don't we just print these values on the console. So double quotes current year. Colon plus year. I'll duplicate this line six times. The second will be current month. Third will be week of year. The fourth will be week of month. And the fifth will be day of year. The six will be day of month. The last print method will be day of week. All right. So if you got all that let's run it and observe the output. See how the first output indicates the current year? It's 2024. The second is a current month, September, but it is the int value. Notice that its value is eight, not nine, because the first month is represented as zero. So you can actually think of it like lists. So in other words, just as the index number of the first element of a list is zero, the number of the first month is also zero, and accordingly the number of September is eight and the number of December is 11. That's a really important difference. You got to remember that. Okay. Let's move on. The next output is the number of the week in the current year. So we're now in the 39th week of the year. The next output is the number of the week in the current month. So we are now in the fifth week of the month. The next output is the number of the day in the current year. So we are now on the 269th day of the year. The first day of the year has value of one. The next output is the number of the day in the current month. So we're now on the 25th day of the month. The first day of the month has a value of one. And the last output is the number of the day in the current week. So the day I'm preparing this lesson happens to be Wednesday. And Wednesday is considered the fourth day of the week. The first day being Sunday. All right. So that's how you get date related information using the calendar class. Now what do you say we try to obtain time values such as hours and minutes. So I'm just going to duplicate this line once. The name of the variable will be our. And this field will be our. Now, if you pay attention there are two our related fields. Right. So the first is our the other is our of day our returns values based on a 12 hour time period. And accordingly noon and midnight are represented as zero. So when you use our the minimum value is zero. The maximum value is going to be 11, right? It does not have a value of 12. So hour of day also returns values based on a 24 hour period. So first let's use the hour. So now I'll duplicate this line. Once the name of the variable will be hour of day the field will be hour of day. Now I want to get the minute, so I'll duplicate this line just once, and the name of the variable will be minute. The field will be minute. And I'll duplicate this line for the second. The variable name will be second and the field name will be second. Lastly I want to get the millisecond, so I'll duplicate this line. The name of the variable will be millisecond and the field name will be millisecond. And why don't we just print them to the console. So I'll duplicate this print method five times. Right. This will be for the hour. This will be for the hour of day. This is for the minute. This will be for the second. And the last print method will be for the millisecond. So why don't we run it and see what happens? Whoa. Okay. There you go. We printed out the current hour, minute, second, and millisecond on the console. So now I want to print the current date and time together. Maybe. Yeah. So I'll duplicate the last print method again, maybe just once. And this expression will be current date and time. So this will be calendar dot get time. So the get time method returns a date object. Therefore you can pass it to a date object if you want to. So we can do it now. So I'll write date. I'll select the date class in the Java.util package and press enter. Date equals calendar dot get time. So now let's use the date object in the print method. Why don't we run it and see what happens? All right, my friends here. You see, we print the date and the time on the console. So if we want to, we could format this output. So why don't we just go ahead and use the simple date format class. And let's create an object of the simple date format class. Simple date format. Simple date format equals new simple date format. And as the constructor parameter, we'll specify the pattern of the format as a string. The year is represented by the letter Y, the month by the letter M, the day by the letter D okay. The hour, though, will be represented by the lowercase letter h minute by lowercase letter m, second by lowercase letter s. So therefore you need to determine a pattern that you want to see. In other words right. So whether it's date and time separately. But for this example let's just set a pattern up like this. Double D for the day after a space four times M for the month After space for times Y for the year. Now specify a pattern for the time. Double H for the hour after a colon. Double M for the minute after colon. Double S for the second. So now let's apply this pattern to the data object. Simple date format. Dot format. Date. Since the format method returns a string, we can assign it to a string variable. String. Formatted date. Time equals. Now let's print this time on the console. I'll duplicate this line. This will be formatted date time. This will be formatted date time. Let's run it and see. Okay, so the current date and time are printed in the format that we were talking about. Of course you can change this format type as you wish, but if you want to you could change the day, the month, the year, use only numbers or maybe even abbreviations instead of the name of the month, or use only hours and minutes as time. Whatever. So in fact, why don't we just do a completely different pattern and well, you'll have an example of it anyway. So I want to duplicate these two lines. This will be simple date format two. And this time I want to use a pattern like this. Double D for the day, double M for the month, double Y for the year. Also, I'll put a dash instead of spaces to separate each value. This time I'm not going to print the second I want to put a dot instead of a colon to separate the hour and minute And. Okay, that pattern's ready. So this will be formatted date time two. This will be simple. Date format two. And let's print it. I'll duplicate this print method. And let me just change these. Okay. Let's run that and observe. All right. So there you see, this time we printed the date and the time in a different format. But you see, by making changes like this, it's possible to obtain the date and the time according to however you want to see it. Right. So let's just continue working with a few different methods in the calendar class. And hey, you know what? We could also set a specific date to the calendar. For example, I'm going to set my birth day. So that means first I want to create a new instance of the calendar class. Calendar birth day equals mine. No calendar birthday equals calendar dot get instance. So now I want to set the birthday birthday dot set. Now paying attention right? There are different overloaded versions of the set method. You can choose a method that you need according to different parameters, but for now I'm just going to select the option with three parameters. Press enter. Now the first parameter of this method is the year value. The second parameter is the month value. The third parameter represents the day of the month. So therefore I'm going to write 1990 in the first parameter. And the second parameter I'll write the number one representing the month of February. You can also just use a constant instead. For example, you could write calendar dot February as a second parameter. So let's make the third parameter 20, which just happens to be the day that I was born. Please, you don't have to send me any gifts. All right. Well, maybe. No. Just kidding. I'm going to print out this date, though. My birthday equals plus birthday. Dot. Get time. Let's run it and see what it looks like. Check it out. There's my birthday printed on the console. Want you to remember that date? No, I'm just kidding. Anyway, what I do want to show you, though, is the mutability of the calendar class. So we've kind of covered what the concept of mutable and immutable is way back in the string section. So you remember just to review this string class is immutable. So once it's created, its value is always the same unless transferred to a new object. But the calendar class is way mutable. So when we create an object belonging to this class and assign a date to it. The value of that object has now changed, so that it does not need to be assigned to a different object. So for example, let's try to print the year value using the birthday object. If the Gallagher class is immutable, well it should print the year we are in now. And if it is mutable, it should print my year of birth. That would be 1990. Oh, I'm getting so old. Let's test it out. S out double quotes. Year equals. Birthday dot. Get. Calendar year. So let's test it out. Yeah. There it goes. It prints 1990, not 2024. So the calendar class, therefore, is mutable. Hey, why don't we look at another subject while we're thinking about it? We could also jump from a certain date to a certain time later or even before. So we'll do an example just like this. So let's say let's jump forward ten years from my birth date. So birthdate add and the add method takes two parameters. The first one will be field. So you can write the year, month or day here. Now since I want to jump ten years after my birthday, I'll write calendar year as the first parameter and the second parameter I'll write ten. So let's print the new date onto the console. So double quotes ten years later. Equals birthday. Get time. Let's run it in test. Well, there you go. You can see the new year is 2000. Welcome to the new millennium, my friends. Yeah. So. Hey, there you go. That's calendar class. All in Java. So you actually use the calendar class all the time? It's very common. But, you know, it's got a few disadvantages. Like it is mutable and handling date and time values at the same time. Local date local time local date time classes starts to, well, blend together because they're all used together with the calendar class as of Java eight, so it's not anything to lose sleep over. You'll know what to do. We're going to continue next time when we come back with a local date class. Okay, so I'll see you in the next video.

=== 3. Local Date Class ===
You came back. Very cool. All right, my friend. In that previous video, we learned all about the calendar class. So in this video, we're going to cover this Localdate class in Java. Now, I'm sure you remember in our previous video we talked about some of the disadvantages of the calendar class, because it's like mutable handling dates and times at the same time. So I was pretty much giving you a history lesson. See, with Java eight, some changes were made to how you use date and time in Java. With Java eight, different classes such as Local date, Local time, local date, time were created and this allows us to handle date and time easier in Java. Now, although we can use the calendar class, it's actually possible to perform the necessary operations with less code thanks to the new classes created. So that means in this video, let's. Well, we can examine one of these classes. How about the Localdate class? So Localdate is maybe not what you're thinking. It is an immutable date time object that represents a date often viewed as year month day. So to date, without a time zone in the ISO 8601 calendar system, if you're keeping track, this class does not store or represent a time or time zone, in other words. Right. So instead it is a description of the date like what you use for birthdays. Not just mine though, so it's not going to be able to represent an instant on the timeline without additional information such as an offset or time zone. You follow. So the Localdate class is actually included in the Java.time package. Also, Localdate class is immutable. So when we create an object of this class and assign a date to it. The value of that object always stays the same until it's assigned to a different object that is. As well as all of that, the Localdate class is thread safe. Now, thread safe just means that multiple threads can use a method or class instance at the same time without any problems occurring. Okay, so the Localdate class doesn't have a constructor. It is a final class as well. Oh, and one more thing. All the methods of this class are static. So for this reason, when we use a Localdate class, we use methods of this class directly and don't use the constructor parenthesis. All right. That's a lot of information. It's all theory. Why don't we just get to work using Localdate class? All right. So I want to create a new class named Localdate. Examples in the date time examples package. So first we're going to print the current date to the console. And I want to create a new instance of the local date class. I'll choose a local date class in the Java.time package, and we'll make the name of this reference be date. So after the equals sign, I want to write local date. Now. Let's print the current date onto the console. S out double quotes. Current date. Plus date. So as you can see, the current date is printed on the console. You got to notice though, there is no time information, only the date information. So now why don't we get the year, the month and the day separately. And year equals date dot get year. And month value equals. Date. Dot get month. Value. Month. Month. Name equals date. Dot get month. Int day of year. Equals date. Dot. Get day of year. Int day of month. Equals date. Dot get day of month. Day of week. Day of week equals date. Dot. Get. Day of week. End. Value of. Day of week. Equals day of week. Dot. Get value. So now let's print these on the console. S out current year plus year. I'll copy and paste this line six times. The second print method will be for the current months value. The third print method is for the current months name. The next will be for the day of year. The next print method is for the day of month. The next print method will be for the day of week. In the last print method will be for the value of the day of week. All right, let's run that and observe. Well, the first output is the current date. The second output is the current year. The third output is the value of the current month. But did something catch your attention? I hope so. So you remember right, we saw the value eight for the month of September in the calendar class on the console. But here we see the value nine. So in other words, the numbering of months in the local date class starts from one and ends with 12. So the value of January is one. September's value is nine. December's value is 12. That's an important distinction to remember. Let's move on. The next output is the name of the month? September. The next output is the value of the day in the year. So it's 269. The next output is the value of the day in the month. So it's 25. The next output is the name of the day Wednesday. Now the next output is the value of the day in the week. So it's three. And here's where I want to draw your attention again. If you notice the day is Wednesday and the value is three. So this means that the value of Monday is one. However remember in the calendar class the first day was Sunday and the value of Sunday was one. So in other words, while the value of this day is actually four according to the calendar class, the value of this day is three according to the local date class. I know, but it is important to just keep that in mind. There's no changing it now. Now, what do you say we print the value of this day using the calendar class and see it well right in front of us before our very eyes. Let's create a calendar instance immediately. Calendar. Calendar equals calendar dot get instance. Now let's print the day of the week's out, double quotes, day of the week and calendar plus. Calendar dot. Get. Calendar dot. Day of week. Let's run it and see. All right. So the day of the week and the calendar class is four. But the day of the week and the local date class is three. Now that's a very clear understanding. All right. We can now continue. Because we can also easily jump to a certain day after a specific date, or a month or a year later or before. So for this, why don't we just use the plus and the minus methods of the Localdate class? So for example, we'll print two weeks ago to the console local date two weeks ago. Equals date dot minus weeks. So you can see there are available the minus days the minus months minus week or minus years for the methods. So what we'll do is use the minus weeks method. So I want to assign two because I want to well learn the week before two weeks from now. So let's just print this on the console. S out double quotes two weeks ago. Plus two weeks ago. Let's run that and see what comes up with. Yeah. So you can see the date before two weeks from today is printed on the console. Now, why don't we print five days from now? To the console. So local date five days later. Date dot plus days. So as you can see there, we have available plus days plus months, plus weeks or plus years for the methods. So why don't we just use the plus days method. So now I will assign five because just arbitrarily I want to learn the day after five days from now. Okay. Let's just print that to the console. S out double quotes five days later. Plus five days later. And we can run that and see. There you go. Five days later from today is now printed to the console. Now, didn't we also say that the Localdate class is immutable? Well, let's fully understand what that means. So I want to print the date object once more to the console and I'll copy this line. Paste it in here. And you notice we've jumped to certain dates by using the date variable in the lines above. If the Localdate class is mutable, the value of the current date variable should change, right? Otherwise, if it's immutable, the same result should be printed on the console. So what are we going to see? Let's observe. And there you see the value of the current date object has not changed. So from this result we can deduce that Localdate class is immutable. But we could make changes by passing a new value to the current data object. For example, let's pass the date ten days later to the current date object. Date equals date dot plus days ten. Now let's print the date to the console once again and test it out. And as you can see, the date object now references the ten days later from now this value will now be valid for operations after this line. And in addition to these we could also pass a specific date that we actually have determined to a local data object. For example, I'm going to assign my wedding date. Yes, I know local date. Wedding date. Equals local date. Dot of. Now, thanks to this method of, we can actually set a specific date and use it. So there are two different methods of the of method. The first one you can give the month value as an int, while in the other one you can actually use the name of the month value. Let's go ahead and give the parameters of this method. Here is going to be 2014. The month will be seven or I can write month July. Notice that the month class is of the enum type. So the days are defined as constant in the month class and we can directly access them. And finally it's going to be day 15. So let's print this to the console. S out double quotes quote. Wedding date. Plus wedding date. Let's run it and see. And sure enough, we can easily print a specific date. Now, we could also compare two different dates with a local date class. So in other words, it's actually very easy to find out which of the two dates is before and which is after with the local date class, because it has a ready made method that provides this. So let's say for example, we'll compare the wedding date with the current date. This is very helpful if you want to keep track of your anniversary, not get in trouble. But for this we will use the Is after and is before methods of local date class. So these methods actually return true or false. So I want to show you how to test it now. S out double quotes is wedding date after current date? Plus wedding date. Dot is after date. Let's run it and see it. Yeah. So you can see the result is printed as false because the wedding date is earlier than the current date. And now let's change the Isafter method to is before. And this expression will be before. So let's rerun the code. And yeah there you go. The output this time is true. All right so there you go, my friends. That's how you play around with the local date class in Java. Why don't we take a short break though. And when we come back in the next video, we're going to cover the local time class. I'll see you then.

=== 4. Local Time Class ===
All right, my friends, welcome back. And you've got to be ready to cover local time. So we've got another immutable date. Time object represents a time often viewed as hour minute. Second is a time without a time zone in the ISO 8601 calendar system. So this class does not store or represent a date or time zone. Instead, it's a description of the local time as seen on a wall clock, so cannot represent an instant on the time line without additional information such as an offset or time zone. Local time class is included in the Java Time package. Conveniently, local time class is also immutable, so when we create an object of this class and assign a time to it, the value of that object always stays the same until it's assigned to a different object. But of course, the local time class is also thread safe. Also, the local time class doesn't have any constructor and it is a final class just like the local day class. Also, all methods of this class are static and for this reason, when we use a local time class, we use the methods of this class directly and we don't use the constructor parenthesis. Now why don't we get some practice in. So what I'll do is I'll create a new class named local time examples in the date time examples package. Now first why don't we go ahead and print the current time to the console. So I'll create a new instance of the local time class, and I will choose the local time class in the Java.time package. Let's name the reference time. So after the equal sign, I'll write local time. Now. Let's print the current time of the console. S out double quotes. Current time. Plus time. Let's run it and see. Okay, so there you see the current time gets printed on the console. And you got to notice that there is no date information, only the time information. Also, the part after the second refers to the nanosecond. So the order is as follows. First the hour, then the minute, then the second, finally the nanosecond. So let's go ahead and get the hour, minute and second separately. And hour equals time. Dot. Get hour. And minute equals time. Dot. Get. Minute. And second equals time. Dot get. Second. And nanosecond equals. Time. Dot. Get. Nano. Now let's print these on the console. S out. Current hour. Plus hour. So I want to copy and paste this line three times. The second print method will be for the current minute. The third print method is for the current second. And the last print method will be for that nanosecond. So let's run it and observe. The first output is the current time. Second output is the current hour. Third output is the current minute. Next output is the current second. Last output is the current nanosecond. Good good good. So we can easily jump to a certain time after or before specific time as well. So for this we can use the plus and minus methods of the local time class. So for example let's print two hours ago to the console local time two hours ago. Equals time dot minus. And as you can see there are available the minus hours, minus minutes minus nanos or minus seconds minutes. So why don't we go ahead and use the minus hours method. And I'll just assign two because I want to learn the hour two hours ago. And let's go ahead and print this on the console. S out double quotes two hours ago. Plus two hours ago. Let's run that. So you can see the time before two hours from now is now printed on the console. Okay, let's go ahead and print 30 minutes from now to the console into the future. We go local time 30 minutes later. Time dot plus. And you can see we have available plus hours plus minutes plus nanos or plus weeks. So for now, let's use the plus minutes method. And let me just assign it to be 30 because we want to get the time 30 minutes from now. So let's go ahead and print that to the console. S out double quotes. 30 minutes later. 30 minutes later. Let's run it and see. There you see, 30 minutes from now or 30 minutes later from now is printed on the console. Now, didn't we also say that the local time class is immutable? Let's just make sure that it is so I want to print the time object once more to the console. So I'll copy this line. Paste it in here. Now you notice we've jumped to certain times just by using the time instance in the lines above. If the local time class is mutable, the value of the current time variable should change. Otherwise, if it is immutable, the same result should be printed to the console. Right. So let's test it out and have a look at the result. Okay so you can see the time object's not changed. So from that we can basically deduce that the local time class is immutable. All right. We can though make changes by passing a new value to the time object. For example, let's just pass the time four hours later to the time object. All right. So that would look like time equals time dot plus hours four. And we'll print the time object to the console once again. Test it out so you can see the time. Object now. References. Four hours later from now. This value will now be valid for operations after this line. Right? Now, in addition to these, we can also pass a specific time that we have determined to the local time object. So let's say for example I want to assign a doctor's appointment time local time. Appointment time equals local time dot of. So it's thanks to this of method we can set a specific time and use that. So the of method has overload versions according to different parameters. So you can use the method that is convenient for you. And I'll choose the of method with three parameters. So now let's give the parameters of this method, the hour will be 15. The hour parameter varies between 0 and 23, so if you specify an hour outside this range, a date time exception will be thrown. The minute will be 30. The minute parameter varies between 0 and 59, so if you specify minute outside this range, a date time exception will be thrown again. So finally the second will be zero. Now normally the second is really not used a whole lot. But if you type zero you're not going to actually see the second value in the console, right? That's why. So I assign this parameter to zero so that you can see that. So let's print this to the console. S out double quotes appointment time. Plus appointment time. Let's run it and see what it looks like. Well, there you can see we can easily print specific times. You got to notice, though, that a unit of seconds is not printed. And that's because we define seconds to be zero. Oh but you know what? We can also compare two different times with a local time class. So in other words, it's very easy to find out which of the two times is before and which is after with the local time class, because it has a ready made method that will give it to us. For example, let's compare the appointment time to the current time, and for this we will use the Isafter and Isbefore methods of the local time class. So these methods return true or false. Why don't we test it out? S out double quotes is appointment time after current time? Plus appointment time Dot is after time. So let's run it and see it. So you can see the result is printed as true because the appointment time is after the current time. Now let's change the is after method to the is before. And this expression will be before. So let's rerun the code. And there you can see this time the output is false. So there you go my friends. That is the local time class in Java. Now of course the usage of these methods is very similar to the local date class, but I think you get it. So why don't we take a short break and then when we come back in the next video, we're going to do some more with the local date time class. All right. See you next time.

=== 5. Local Date Time Class ===
All right my friends. Welcome back. So previous video we learned the local time class. So in this video we're going to do the local date time class in Java. So the local date time class is an immutable date time object that represents a date time often viewed as a year month day hour minute second. So it's a date time without a time zone in the ISO 8601 calendar system. So you can actually think of this class as a combination of the local date and the local time classes. This class does not store or represent a time zone. Instead, it's a description of the date, such as that used for birthdays combined with a local time as seen on your wall clock. If you have one on the wall, that is. Anyway, it can represent an instant on the timeline without any additional information, such as an offset or time zone, so the local date time class is actually included in the Java.time package. The local datetime class is also immutable. So when we create an object in this class and assign a date time to it, the value of that object always stays the same until of course, it's assigned to a different object. If it is ever so, the local datetime class is also thread safe. Also, the local datetime class does not have any constructor. It is a final class, just like local date and local time. But also all the methods of this class are static. So for this reason, when we use a local datetime class, we use the methods of this class directly and we don't use the constructor parenthesis. All right. So you know most of that already I hope. So now that we've done all that, why don't we just get some practice with the local DateTime class. So what I'll do is create a new class named Localdatetime examples in the DateTime examples package. And first, why don't we go ahead and print the current date time to the console. So I'll create a new instance of the local datetime class, and I'll choose the local DateTime class in the Java.time package. We'll let the name of the reference be DateTime. After the equal sign, I'll write local date time now. Next we'll print the date time onto the console. S out double quotes. Current date. Time. Plus date time. Let's run all that and see what happens. Well, there you can see the current date time is printed on the console. Now you notice, right, that both date and time information get printed together. And here's the order. First the year, then the month, then the day. Then the T letter represents a time stamp, right? So it separates the date and the time from each other. So after the letter T versus the hour, then the minute, then the second and last up is the nanosecond. So if we would want to we could get these values separately. So why don't we print the year and the hour information separately to the console just for an example. And year equals date time dot get year. And hour equals date. Time dot get hour. Now because you already know in pretty good detail how to get the other parameters in local date and local time. Those videos that we did before. Um, it's just enough here to just take these two values for now. So if you want to, you can print the other values separately. So why don't we just print these on the console s out double quotes current year plus year's out double quotes current hour plus hour. Let's run all that and observe the output. Yeah. So the first output is the current date and time. Second output is the current year, last output is the current hour. And of course we could easily jump to a certain date time after or before a specific date time. So for this we could use the plus and the minus methods of the local DateTime class. So let's say for example, we want to print two days ago to the console local datetime two days ago. Equals datetime dot minus. And here you can see there are available. What have we got. The minus day. Minus hours. Minus minutes. Minus month. Minus nanos minus seconds. Minus week. Minus years okay. So right now let's use the minus days method. And I will assign the two because I want to learn the day before two days from now okay. So now let's let's just print all this on the console. S out double quotes two days ago plus two days ago. Let's run it and see what it looks like. And there you see the date. Two days from now in the past is printed on the console. So what about three hours from now? Let's print that local date time. Three hours later. Equals date. Time dot plus. So here you see, we can access the plus methods, which are the equivalent of the minus methods that we just looked at. And we'll use the plus hours method this time. So I'll assign it to be three because I want to learn the time three hours from now. So let's print this onto the console. S out double quote three hours later. Plus three hours later. Let's run that and see what happens. Okay. So you can see three hours from now is printed onto the console. Now, didn't we also say that local date time is immutable? Well, let's just make sure. So I'll print the date time object once more to the console. So I'll copy this line. Now you notice we've jumped to a certain date and time by using the date time instance in the lines above. So if the local date time class is mutable, the value of the date time variable should change. Otherwise, if it is immutable, the same result should be printed to the console. Let's test it and make sure. And there you see the value of the date time object has not changed. So by that we can now deduce that the local date time class is immutable. Now of course we could make changes by passing a new value to the date time object. So, for example, we could pass the time one hour ago to the time object. Date time equals date time minus hours one. Now let's print the date time. Object to the console once more and test it out. And there you can see the date time object. Now references one hour ago. So this value will now be valid for operations after this line. So in addition to these we could also pass a specific date time that we've determined to the local date time object for example. Yeah. Let's assign me my birthday again. Local date time. My birthday equals local date datetime of and once again, using the of method, we can set a specific date time and use it. That of method has overload versions according to different parameters, so you can use this method that's convenient to you whichever one. I'll of course choose the of method with five parameters. So now let's give those parameters to the method. The year will be 1990. The month will be month February. Or you can write to. The date will be 20. The hour will be nine and the minute will be 30. Now let's print this to the console. S out double quotes. My birthday. Plus my birthday. And let's run it and see. Yeah. There. You see, we can easily print the specific date and time. Oh, you know, we can also compare two different dates and times with the local date time class. So yeah, it's very easy to find out which of the two times is before and which is after with the local date time class, because it's got a ready made method working for you. So let's say, for example, let's compare my birthday with the current date and time. So for this I want to use the is after and is before methods of the local date time class and these methods return true or false. So why don't we test it out? So Double quotes is my birthday after the current date time. Plus my birthday dot is after date time. Let's run it and see. Yeah. So there's the result. It's printed as false because my birthday is before the current date. Now why don't we change the Isafter method to is before. And this word will be before. So let's rerun the code. Well, there you can see this time the output is true. All right, so my friends, there you go. That's the local DateTime class in Java. And of course usage of the methods is very similar to the local date and local time classes. But like I was saying at the beginning, right, you can just think of this class as a combination of the local date and local time classes. So you can use whichever you need to get to whatever specific you need. All right. So we'll take a short break here. But when we come back in the next video we're going to get into the period class. Okay. So I'll see you then.

=== 6. Period Class ===
All right. Hello my friends. Welcome back. So in that previous video we talked a little bit more about local DateTime class. So why don't we now get into this period class okay. So the period class models a quantity or amount of time in terms of years, months and days right? Period of time. You can think of it. So it's it's date based. It's an amount of time. And it's within the ISO 8601 calendar system. So it looks like two years, three months and four days, for example. Now the supported units of a period are years, months and days. The period classes included in the Java.time package. And of course the period class is immutable. It is thread safe, just like local date, local time and local datetime classes. The period class doesn't have any constructor and it is a final class. Also, all the methods of this class are static. Now when we use the period class, we don't use a constructor parenthesis. In other words. All right, so there you go. That's enough of that. Let's do some practice. So I want to create a new class and name it period class examples in the DateTime examples package. Why don't we also create an instance of the period class. So I'll choose the period class in the Java.time package and press enter. We'll let the name of the reference be period. After the equal sign. I'll write period and put a dot so we can see the methods of the period class, such as between from of of days, of months, of weeks and of years. So you know that it's thanks to this between method, we can actually find the time between two different dates. And of course with the of method we can jump to a specific date by using the year, month, and day values. Or, if you only want to work with dates such as month, week, or year, you could always choose one of the other methods here. But you do notice that there is no method related to the time here, because a period class is used together with a local date class. So now why don't we make use of the of method. And this method will take three parameters. First one is the year. Second one is the month. Third one is the day. Let the year be five. The month 11. The day 20. So first let's print this period on the console and s out double quotes period plus period. Let's run the code. There you see the period is printed now on the console. Now you notice right that there's a letter P at the beginning. That's what indicates the period. Okay. Five y means five years, 11 M 11 months. 20. D means well. You guess. Now let's add this period to a particular date. So I want to get the current date. Local date. Date equals local date. Dot. Now. And I'll also print the date on the console. So double quotes current date. Plus date. And after that I will add the period to the current date. Local date after period equals current date. Dot plus period. Now we can print the after period variable onto the console. Let's run that and see what it looks like. The first output is the current date. This is the period, and the last output is the current date. After adding the period we specified to the current date. Okay, so let's examine the output. The year is 2030. The month is nine. Day is 14. So how did we get this date? We determined the month value as 11. In the period. Right. Since the current month is nine. The sum of 11 and nine is 20 months. So this means one year and eight months. Therefore, it adds one more year to the year and actually adds six years to the current year. Therefore, the year is 2030. Since the remainder of 20 months is eight. The new month value becomes eight first, then it adds the days to each other. So it's currently day 25. The day we set in periods 20, the sum of 25 and 20 is 45. Since the ninth month, September is 30 days. 30 days of it's 45. Days are added to the month value as one month, and then the final value of the month becomes nine, so the remaining 14 days are printed as days. Now, what do you say we calculate the time until my next birthday using the period class? So first of all, I have to set my birthday to a date, so I'll just create another local date object. The year will be 2025, the month will be two and the day will be 20. No presents please. Just cake. Now let's calculate the time left until my next birthday using the between method of the period class S out double quotes remaining time to my birthday. Period between. The first parameter will be birthday. Second parameter will be the date, so it will subtract the first parameter from the second parameter that is current date minus birthday. Let's run it and see. And you can see there's four months and 25 days before my next birthday. Now you know what else we can use? The period class with a loop. For example, why don't we use it in a while loop? So first let's create a new period object. Period period two equals period dot of days. So this time I want to use the of days method. Right. So let's make the period five. So now I'll create the while loop. But first I need a variable right. Int I equals ten. Now I'll create the while loop. The condition will be I greater than zero. In the loop first I'll add this period to the current date. Date dot plus period two. Now if I leave it like that, the value of the current date will not change because the local date is immutable. I'll assign it to the date object again. So at the beginning of the code, I'll write date equals. Now let's print the date onto the console. S out double quote after five days. Plus date. Lastly, I'll decrease the value of I by one. So let's run all that and see what happens. And there you see, it adds five days to the current date and printed it to the console. Then it added five more days once in each iteration. Then it adds five more days to the previous date until the loop ends. After the value of I is zero, the loop gets terminated. So you can see how to use period class with loops and how that works well. So there it is my friends. The period class in Java. So why don't we take a short break? We'll meet again in the next video.

=== 7. Date Time Formatting (DateTimeFormatter Class) ===
All right. Hello my friends. Welcome back. So we've learned about the period class in the previous video. So now you know how to get the date and time information printed to the console. You can even set a specific date. You can easily apply a certain period to a date with a period class. There is one last thing left to do though. Format the date and time. I'm sure you noticed, right? The date and time are always printed on the console in the same certain format. So what do we do if we want to change the format of the date and time? Well, I'm sure you remember. We also did this using the simple date time format class while we were learning the calendar class. However, with Java eight we can now do this formatting using the date time formatter class. Of course! Well, you can always use the simple date format class if you want to, but if you're going to be working with a java.time package, you're going to need to use the DateTime formatter class instead of the simple date format class. All right. Why don't we do this example and it's going to be a lot clearer. So let's say that we have a date that represents a seventh day of the sixth month in the year 2030. Let's try to format this date in a completely different way. So for example, let's first write the month as an abbreviation and then the day in two digits. And finally, why don't we try to print the last two digits of the year. And we'll also separate each of these parameters with a slash. So in this case the date that we'll get will be. Well it'll look like this. June 0730 okay. With slashes in between. Now we're going to use the DateTime formatter class to do this and some similar operations as well. So the datetime formatter class is actually a formatter for printing and parsing date time objects. So this class is in the Java DateTime format package. This class is also immutable and threadsafe like the other classes we've been working with lately. There are three different methods though that we can basically use in this formatting process. So first we can use a pattern that we determine ourselves, such as for Y's, three M's, two D's, whatever. But secondly, we can use predefined fixed formats like ISO, Localdate. And of course third we could use localized styles like short or medium. Okay. So there's all kinds of information about formatting. Why don't we just figure out how to do it. All right. So let's create a new class named date time format or class examples in the date time examples package. So here I want to use the string pattern to format a date. And I'll create a custom date and time. So first we'll create a custom date. Local date. My custom date equals local date dot of. The year can be 2030. The month can be six. The day can be seven. Okay, so now I want to create a custom time. Local time. My custom time. Equals local time dot of. Now the hour can be 11. The minute can be 20. The second can be 30. And now I'll create a DateTime object and assign the custom date and custom time to it. Local DateTime. My custom date time equals local date time dot eof. So for the parameters, I'll write my custom date and my custom time. Then after that I can print the my custom date time object on the console. So double quotes default. Custom date time. Plus my custom date time. Now let's change the format of this date time with a custom pattern. So I'll create a date time formatter. Instance date time formatter. My custom formatter equals. Date. Time formatter. Dot of pattern. Inside the double quote. We'll write the format. Style. For example, let's print the month. First I'm going to put in four M's here in capital letters. In fact if you use a single letter M, the month will be represented as a number. But the first nine months will be single digits, right? If you use two letters this time, the month will be the number again, but the first nine months will be printed with two digits, and that will be a zero to the left of the nine. If you use three M's, well, the month name will be written as text, but as an abbreviation, for example, Jan for the month of January. So if you use forms. That's right. You were wondering this whole time, why the heck there are four M's in there? But you'll see that the month name will be written as text and the full name will be written. In fact, go ahead, test it out by yourself. So let's show the day after the month and I'm printing two DS here. And again, if you use a single letter D, the day will be represented by a number, but the first nine days will be single digits. If you use two DS, guess what? The time of day will be a number, but the first nine days will be printed with two digits, with that zero to the left of the nine, which might be what you want. But anyway, let's set the year. So the letter Y represents a year and I'm putting four y's here Y ha. Having four y's just means that the year is shown as four digits. If I were to put two Y's, well only the last two digits of the year will be shown. So that's why I'm going to use four wise to show what the year is as it is. Okay. So you know what? We can also separate them with a slash, a dot or a comma instead of a space. For example, let's just set the month and the day with a slash. So I'll put a comma to separate the year though. And yeah I'll go ahead and put a space before the year. All right. So my pattern of the date is ready. Why don't we also specify a pattern for the time. Okay. So I'll use two H's to represent the hour. Also separate the hours and minutes with a colon. And I'll use two m's to represent the minutes. And last up two S's for the seconds. Now, of course, you can separate the date and the time with a symbol if you want. For example, why don't we separate them with a slash? You can also print the time in the next line. So for this you could use the backslash n. That, my friends, is entirely up to you. So my pattern is now ready. Let's just apply this pattern to the my custom DateTime object. S out double quotes. Custom date time. Plus my custom date time dot format. My custom formatter. But hang on, let me show you something else. We can also write it like this. My custom formatter dot format. My custom date time. So this syntax will also be valid. See the format method returns us a formatted string. Therefore you might actually want to first transfer to a string and then call that string here again, entirely up to you. So let's run it and see what it looks like. So here's the default format. This is the format that we created ourselves. And you can see the custom formats applied to the date and the time. And it looks like we said it would. Now of course you might be asking the following questions but just don't want to raise your hand. Which letter does what when determining the pattern? Or are there any other letters that you can use? Or wait a minute, what's the difference between using uppercase and lowercase letters again? Well, for that my friends, there's always the official Java documentation where you can find the answers to all your questions and more. So don't worry, I'll just share the link to the page with you underneath it here. Okay, but I do want to briefly have a look at this page with you in our browser. So yeah, just go ahead and click the link that I shared with you. And you'll go to this page and you'll see that this page consists of three different parts. The upper left hand section is a section with all the packages. The section just below it starts the well, the classes that are included within that package. But this is the section where you'll see all the explanations about this package and the classes in the package. And let's just go ahead and find that Java.time dot format package. Did you find it faster than I did? So I'm going to click on it. And you can actually see the classes in this package appear here. And from this section we can click on the date Time Formatter class. Now over here on the right we can find the information about this class. So if you scroll down the page a bit you can see the table under the patterns for formatting and parsing. It's the setting here. So here's where you can access the letters that we use for the custom format and the meanings of these letters. So let's just take a brief look at this table. So we use the letter Y for year in the custom format. But if you pay attention we can also see that the letter Y is used for the year. Right. So it actually gives the year as the output. So you can get output like that. Go ahead and enter the letter U because you can also use that instead of letter y. Now over here we have the letter M which we use in the custom format. And that represents the month. So we can see here that the letter M represents the month just like we used it. Now it gives numbers or text as an output. And these are results that you can get just like this for example. All right. So we of course, talked about all this in the video. And the type of these outputs actually depends on the number of letters that you use, right. So for example, if you use a single letter M the month will be represented with a single number like that. And if you just use three M's you can understand that you'll get an output like this. All right. So let's just continue where we left off. In fact, if you don't want to be bothered with the link, you can always hold down the Ctrl key on the keyboard and click on the date time formatter class to open it. Anyway, in this class, you can find the information in the document and the table that we were just looking at. So look at that. The same table in the documents available here. Why didn't I tell you that before? You say, well now let's continue where we left off. So yeah, you can format the date and time like this using custom pattern. Let's go look at another method the predefined ISO date and time constant. So that means I'll need to create another date. Time formatter instance DateTime formatter. Constant. Formatter. Equals date. Time formatter dot ISO. Now you can see there are a lot of constants. If you format the date you must select the date format. If you format the time, you must select the time format. Otherwise you get the runtime exception error. Who wants that? Do I have to pay attention to that though? Right. So since we are using date and time together in our current example, I want to use the date time formatting. So here I will select the ISO local date time. All right. So now let's apply this format to the my custom DateTime object and print it on the console. Plus constant formatter dot format my custom datetime. So now why don't we run it and see. There you see the ISO date time format is the same as the default format style. And you know what? You can apply other formats to the date and time objects. Let's have a look at the last format. Style right. The localized style. So I want to create another formatting object date time formatter. Localized formatter equals date. Time formatter dot of localized. Okay. So here you can see there are three different types of this format style for the date, for the time and for the date time. If you format the date, guess what? You must select the date format. If you format the time, you must select the time format, otherwise you get the runtime exception error. Of course you do. So just pay attention. That's all. But since we are using date and time together in our current example, I want to select the of localized date time style. So in parentheses I'll right format style. Put a dot and you can see the styles of full long medium short. Okay, for now I just will select the medium format style. And you can always test the other styles yourself as well in your own time. All right. Let's just apply this format to the my custom DateTime time object and print it on the console. S out double quotes. Localized style. Medium. Plus localized formatter. Dot format. My custom date time. Let's run it and see what it looks like. All right, so there you see the medium style. Looks pretty good. So my friend you can always format the date and time like this. Or customize it the way that we did together. So of course it's very useful. You can use it time and time again. All right. So that's the entire topic of date and time in Java. We're going to take a short break here. But let's meet again in the next video. All right. See you then.
