=== 1. Introduction to Concurrency APIs ===
All right, all right, all right. Welcome back, my friends. Now. Previously, we wrote code using the IntelliJ for volatile keywords. But actually in this lesson we're going to dive into high level concurrency APIs in Java. And that's going to make managing threads much easier and more efficient. See, these tools actually take care of the heavy lifting when it comes to thread management, allowing you to focus more on the tasks you need to run. So we're going to start with the executive framework. The executive framework provides a way to decouple the submission of tasks from the actual execution of those tasks. So instead of managing threads manually, you can use the executor executor service or scheduled executor service to manage thread pools for you. All right. So we'll have a look at executor. That's the simplest form. So you submit tasks and it handles the execution. An executor service extends executor and adds methods for managing tasks, such as shutting down the executor. After that, scheduled executor service allows for scheduling tasks to run after a delay or at a fixed interval, making it great for tasks that need to run periodically. You might be thinking, why would that be useful? Because that's going to free you from the complexity of manually creating and managing thread, especially when you need to execute tasks asynchronously or on a scheduled basis. Now, one of the key benefits of the executor framework is thread pooling. There are different types of thread pools you can use depending on your needs. But we got to talk about these first. So let's just talk about this fixed thread pool. Fixed thread pool actually creates a thread pool with a fixed number of threads if all the threads are busy. New tasks are going to have to wait until a thread becomes available. Then we've got cached thread pool. This dynamically creates threads as needed. Now that's going to be ideal when you have many short lived tasks. Single thread pool. This uses only one thread to execute tasks. It ensures tasks are executed sequentially, which is very useful when you need to ensure tasks don't overlap. Scheduled thread pool allows tasks to run after a certain delay or at regular intervals, similar to timers. All right, my friends, now we can move on to concurrent collections. So concurrent collections in Java such as concurrent hash map and copy on write array, list or thread safe data structures that are designed for scenarios where multiple threads might need to access or modify a collection simultaneously. Why do we have to use them? Well, in multithreaded environments. Collections like regular HashMap or ArrayList can cause some problems if they are modified by multiple threads. Concurrent collections handle these situations safely, avoiding the need for external synchronization. So let's say for example, concurrent HashMap allows multiple threads to read and write to the map simultaneously without causing concurrency issues, and it does this by splitting the map into segments, reducing lock contention. By using concurrent collections. We don't have to manage synchronization manually, making our code more efficient and easier to write. So next let's talk about future and callable interfaces. Callable is an interface in Java, much like runnable, but with one major difference it can return a result or throw a checked exception. Now it's perfect when you need to perform some computation in a separate thread and get the result back. Future represents the result of an asynchronous computation. When you submit a callable task to an executor service, it returns a future object. This future allows you to check if the task is completed, wait for its result, or cancel it if necessary. So you got to think of future and callable as a way to perform tasks asynchronously and retrieve the result when it's ready, which is especially helpful when performing long running tasks like fetching data from a remote server. And finally, we have this atomic variables. Now atomic variables are actually part of the Java.util.concurrent atomic package, and they're used to perform atomic operations on variables like. Atomic integer. Atomic long and atomic boolean. Well, why do we use these? You might be thinking. Well, in a multithreaded environment, updating a variable like an integer. Can lead to thread interference where two or more threads try to modify it. Simultaneously. That's going to lead to incorrect results. You've already seen that. See, atomic variables solve this problem by allowing thread safe. Lock free. Operations on single variables. So for example atomic integer dot increment. And get increments the value and returns the result as an atomic operation, ensuring that no two threads interfere with each other during the increment. Atomic variables are very useful, especially when you want to avoid using locks, but still need to safely modify shared variables. Now why don't we summarize all this? Concurrent collections simplify thread safe data handling without any need for manual synchronization. Future callable. These are the interfaces that allow us to perform tasks asynchronously and retrieve results later. Atomic variables provide a way to perform thread safe, lock free operations on single variables. See each of these tools. Helps make Java multithreading way more efficient and easier to work with, allowing you to write cleaner, safer, and more performant code. So when we come back in the next video, we're going to dive deeper into high level concurrency tools like Executor Framework that's going to help manage thread pools and make multithreading even more efficient. Well, thanks for being here. We'll see you in the next video.

=== 2. Executor Service ===
All right, all right. Hello, everybody. Welcome back. So previously we covered some really important high level concurrency APIs like the executor framework, concurrent collections, future and callable interfaces and atomic variables. Now, these are very powerful tools that make working with threads and concurrency in Java much easier and more efficient. But now, my friends, we're going to get our hands dirty and actually write code for the executor framework using IntelliJ. We're going to see how to manage multiple tasks efficiently using thread pools. It's a great way to take control of thread management and improve performance. So let's dive right into the code and see how to implement an executor service step by step. So here you see I've opened IntelliJ and I'll create a new project named executor example. And in our IntelliJ project. Create a new Java class named Executor service. Example. Start by importing the required packages. These are Java.util.concurrent executor service. And this is the interface that we're going to use to manage thread pools. Java.util.concurrent executors. A factory class that provides useful methods to create different kinds of thread pools. Java.util.concurrent time unit. This is used for time conversions when shutting down the executor. Now we're going to create a task that will be run by the executor service. So we're creating a class named task that implements the runnable interface. In Java. Runnable is an interface that defines a single method run. So when a class implements runnable, it must provide an implementation of the run method. And this of course is especially useful when you want to execute code in a separate thread. And next we'll add a private field named Taskname. So this field is going to hold the name of the task we're going to run. Each instance of the task class will have a unique task name, and that will help us identify which task is being executed by a particular thread. So now let's add a constructor to the class. And the constructor, of course, is responsible for initializing the task name. When we create a new instance of the task class, we pass the task name as a parameter and the constructor assigns it to the task name field. Now, since we're implementing the runnable interface, we must provide the implementation for the run method. This is where the logic of the task will be defined inside the run method. We first print a message to the console. This message tells us that the task is starting, showing both the task name and the name of the thread executing it. We get the current thread's name using thread dot current thread dot get name. Excellent. Now to simulate the task doing some actual work, we use Thread.sleep Wright 2000, which pauses the execution of the current thread for two seconds, and this delay represents some time consuming operation. However, calling sleep can throw an interrupted exception, so we need to wrap this part of the code in a try catch block to handle any interruptions that might occur while the thread is sleeping. Then, after the simulated work is done, after the two second delay, we print another message to the console indicating that the task is complete. And we again include the task name in the message just to indicate which task is finished. All right. So let's just summarize this code. See what we've got. You can see we've created a task class that implements runnable. And each task has a task name to identify it. Then the run method prints a message when the task starts, simulates work with a two second sleep, and prints a message when the task is complete. So in this code we are creating a fixed thread pool with three threads using the executor service. The executor service manages a pool of threads and allows us to submit tasks for execution. We're actually submitting six tasks to the executor service. Each task is created by instantiating the task class, which we discussed earlier. And these tasks are executed by the thread pool, where three threads will run tasks in parallel. Once a thread finishes a task, it picks up another from the queue. We use await termination to make the program wait for 60s for all tasks to complete. If the tasks take too long, we can forcefully shut down the executor using shutdown now. All right, my friends. So in this video, we learned how to use the executor service to manage a pool of threads and run tasks concurrently. We started by creating a fixed thread pool, then submitted multiple tasks to it, and finally shut down the executor gracefully. See, this approach is very useful when we have a limited number of threads, but need to run many tasks in parallel. But we also saw how to handle graceful shutdown and how to forcefully stop tasks if they exceed a certain time limit. Now, when we come back, we're going to be talking about scheduled executor. So I'll see you next video.

=== 3. Scheduled Executor Service ===
All right. Hello everybody. Welcome back. So check it out. We're going to talk about scheduled executor service. We're going to get right to it though. So first off in the main method the very first thing we do is create a scheduled executor service. So this service is going to allow us to schedule tasks with delays or at fixed intervals. And we use the method executors dot new scheduled thread pool to create a pool of three threads. And these threads will handle the scheduled tasks. Now you might be thinking why three? Why not 33? Well, it just means that we can run up to three tasks concurrently. If there are any more than three tasks, they're going to wait in a queue until a thread becomes available. And then we're going to want to submit tasks to be executed after a delay. So in a loop we create five task instances and schedule them to run with a delay. Using the schedule method. Now, what's this schedule doing? For each task we pass in a delay of I multiply two seconds and I want to explain this meaning. So task one runs after two seconds. Task two runs after four seconds. Task three runs after six seconds. And it continues on and on. Like this. Okay, now we use the schedule at fixed rate method. To schedule a task to run repeatedly at a fixed rate. How's that going to work? I'll show you in this case, the task that the message fixed rate task will start after an initial delay of one second, then continue to run every five seconds. So, for example, it runs at one second, runs again at six seconds. That's five seconds after the previous run, runs again at 11 seconds. And then it continues. So next we schedule a task using the schedule with fixed delay. This method schedules a test to run repeatedly, but with a fixed delay after the completion of each task. Are we going to make that work well? Here the fixed delay task starts after a two second delay. Then after each execution, it waits five seconds before running again. The key difference from schedule at fixed rate is that it waits for the task to finish before starting the next one. For example, the task starts in two seconds. If the task takes three seconds to complete, the next run will start five seconds after the previous task finishes, so the next run will be at 10s. Two plus three plus five. Now this is useful when you want to ensure a fixed gap between executions, regardless of how long the task itself takes. So in order to observe the tasks executing well, we let the program run for 20s by using Thread.sleep. That values 20,000 and this causes the main thread to pause, giving our scheduled tasks enough time to execute. And finally, we call scheduled executor shutdown to gracefully shut down the executor. So this tells the executor service to stop accepting new tasks, but it will still complete all the tasks that have already been scheduled. Then, once all the tasks are finished, the executor shuts down and we print a message to indicate that the shutdown is complete. Now, why don't we just summarize what we've done? Scheduled executor service allows us to schedule tasks with delays or to run periodically. The schedule method is used to run tasks after a certain delay. The schedule at fixed rate method allows us to run tasks at regular intervals, regardless of task duration. The schedule with fixed delay method ensures a fixed delay between task executions, accounting for the task duration. And you know what? Something's been bugging me. I really got to talk to you about the type of executors. So first, why don't we just write a single thread? Executor named new single thread executor. And I will write executors dot new single thread executor. Now this executor creates a single thread to execute tasks sequentially, and this is ideal. Of course, when you want tasks to execute one at a time, like updating a shared resource without the need for synchronization. Second, fixed thread pool named new fixed thread pool. And I want to create an executor service named fixed thread pool. And I'll write executors dot new fixed thread pool and send four threads in here. So this is kind of like a fixed number of threads right? If all threads are busy tasks wait in a queue when you know how many threads you need, and you want to prevent the overhead of creating or destroying threads. Ah, so next I'm going to want to create a cast thread pool named New Cast Thread Pool. So this executor creates new threads as needed and reuses previously constructed threads whenever available. Threads that are idle for 60s are terminated. This is ideal for short lived tasks or unpredictable workloads where you don't know how many threads you'll need in advance. Next, I create a scheduled thread pool named New Scheduled Thread Pool. So this is a pool of threads that can schedule tasks to execute after a given delay, or periodically at fixed intervals for recurring tasks like sending notifications, periodic backups, or monitoring tasks. And finally a single thread scheduled executor named new single thread scheduled executor. Very much like new scheduled thread pool, but with only a single thread. So tasks execute one at a time for time based tasks that must be executed sequentially. So let's just summarize what we've covered. How to use the scheduled executor service to schedule tasks to run after a delay or at fixed intervals. And we also explored different types of executors like fixed thread pools, cache thread pools, and single thread executors, each suited for different task management needs. Now when we come back, we're going to get into concurrent collection. Then we'll do some examples. All right. See you in the next video.

=== 4. Concurrent Collection ===
And we're back. So thanks for coming by. Um, so last time we talked about executors, actually, in this video we're going to talk about concurrent collections and how they simplify thread safe data handling without any need for manual synchronization. Yeah. We're going to focus on concurrent hash map. And this allows multiple threads to safely interact with a shared map. So you can see I've opened IntelliJ and I want to create a new project in IntelliJ named Concurrent Example. So first up I want to create an instance here. And we're actually using a concurrent hash map to store the results of our tasks. This collection is thread safe, so multiple threads can safely add or retrieve data from it without any manual synchronization, like synchronized blocks or locks. And creating a thread pool instance. So we create a fixed thread pool with three threads using executors. Dot new fixed thread pool. And add three threads. Now this thread pool will manage the execution of our tasks concurrently. We submit five tasks to the thread pool. Each task prints a message showing which thread is executing it. Then simulate some work using thread.sleep. Send 1000, pausing for a second. Inside each task, after the simulated work is done, the thread puts the result into the concurrent hash map. Each entry in the map stores the task name as the key. For example, task one and a message indicating which thread completed the task. For example, completed by pool one. Thread one. You see, as each task finishes, it stores its result in the concurrent hash map using the put method. Now, since concurrent HashMap manages synchronization internally, you don't need to worry about race conditions. Multiple threads can write to the map simultaneously and it's going to handle everything for you. So after all the tasks are submitted, we gracefully shut down the executor service by calling shutdown and await termination. Now. This will ensure that no more tasks will be accepted. And of course we wait for all the submitted tasks to complete. And finally, we print out the results stored in the concurrent hash map. So each tasks result is displayed showing which thread completed each task. Alrighty then. So why are we using concurrent collections? Well, perhaps, as you can see here. Concurrent collections like concurrent hash map make multithreaded programming a whole lot easier. First for no manual synchronization. So unlike the traditional collections like HashMap or ArrayList, you don't have to manually add synchronization to prevent race conditions. So the collection itself manages all the thread safety for you. Secondly, though, for better performance, concurrent HashMap uses fine grained locking, which means that only certain parts of the map are locked when threads write to it. This allows for better performance. Way better than using a synchronized block or a hash table, which locks the entire structure. And of course, it's easier to write and maintain. So by eliminating the need for manual synchronization, your code becomes simpler and easier to maintain, reducing the chances for bugs or deadlocks. And then finally we explored how to use concurrent hash map. That's one of Java's concurrent collections to safely share data between multiple threads without needing to manually manage synchronization. We also demonstrated how easy it is to submit tasks to a thread pool, collect the results in a thread safe way, and then print the results.

=== 5. Future and Callable ===
All right everybody welcome back. So previously we talked about concurrent collection like concurrent hash map. So in this video we're going to introduce the future and callable interfaces which will allow us to perform tasks asynchronously and retrieve the results later. We'll get into how callable is different from runnable because it returns a result, and how to use future to get the result once the task is complete. So I'm going to want to create a project in IntelliJ now. And I'll create a project named Future Callable Example. So we'll begin here by creating a fixed thread pool with three threads using executors new fixed thread pool and put three threads. The executor service will manage the threads and execute tasks in the background. So did we already say why three threads? It means that up to three tasks can run in parallel, and if more tasks are submitted, they'll be queued until a thread becomes available. And now we can create a callable task. So unlike runnable, a callable can return a result or throw an exception. So here the callable is a lambda expression that prints the thread name, simulates some work with a thread dot sleep and put 2000 and returns a result. Now what really is callable? It is like runnable, but it can return a result. So in this case we return a string indicating which thread executed the task. Excellent. So next we'll submit the callable task to the executor service. When we submit a task, it returns a future object. This future represents the result of the asynchronous computation. So it's going to allow us to retrieve the result once the task is complete. Future actually allows us to check the task's progress, cancel it as well as retrieve its result once a task finishes. Submit callable task. This method submits the task to one of the available threads in the thread pool. All right. So now the task has been submitted. We can perform other operations in the main thread while the callable task is being executed by one of the pool threads. And this will demonstrate that the main thread is not blocked by the tasks execution. You can actually add in any code here that the main thread should be doing while the task is running in the background, and once we're ready to retrieve the result of the task, we can go ahead and use the get method on the future object. So this method blocks the main thread until the task completes and the result is available. Future result dot get will block the main thread until the task completes. Once a task is done, the result is returned. And of course we can now print it. So once all the tasks are complete, well, we need to gracefully shut down the executor service. So we call shutdown to stop accepting new tasks and wait for the already submitted task to finish. Shutdown ensures that no new tasks are submitted, and the threads in the pool will finish executing the current task before shutting down. Hi my friends here, we'll wrap it up here, but we'll be looking at atomic variables next time and that will allow us to perform threadsafe operations on single variables without locking. It's a great way to make your code more efficient in multithreaded environments, so stick around. I'll see you next time.

=== 6. Atomic Variables ===
All right, all right, all right. Welcome back everybody. Now previously we talked about future and callables. So that means you're ready to talk about atomic variables and how they help us perform thread safe lock free operations on individual variables. We're going to focus on atomic integer. And this allows us to safely increment or update an integer value in a multithreaded environment without using synchronization or locks. So then I'm going to want to create a new project named Atomic Variables in IntelliJ. So we start by creating an instance of atomic Integer. And this class provides methods to atomically update the integer, meaning that multiple threads can safely modify it without causing any issues like race conditions. So it's actually a class that provides atomic thread safe operations on an integer, and it means that multiple threads can increment, decrement, or update the value without needing locks or synchronized blocks. So we'll initialize the counter to zero and this value will be shared across all threads. Next, we create a fixed thread pool with three threads using executor's dot new fixed thread pool. Put three. So this is going to manage a concurrent execution of multiple tasks, each incrementing the atomic integer. Now we submit five tasks to the thread pool. Each task will increment the counter using the increment and get method from atomic integer, which atomically increments a value and returns the updated value. The increment and get method atomically increments the counter by one and returns the updated value. Because it's atomic, no two threads can access the counter at the same time, so there's no risk of a race condition. And then after all the tasks have been submitted, we'll need to shut down the executor service to ensure no new tasks are accepted. And then we'll wait for the submitted tasks to finish using await termination. And shut down stops a thread pool from accepting new tasks. However, already submitted tasks will still run. We'll use await termination to wait up to 10s for all tasks to complete. This ensures that the main thread won't exit before the tasks are finished. And then once all the tasks are complete, we'll print the final value to the counter. This shows us how many times the atomic integer was incremented, and since we submitted five tasks, the final value should be five. The get method simply returns the current value of the counter. Now, why are we using atomic variables in the first place for thread safety without synchronization? So like atomic variables, like atomic integer, make it easy to perform thread safe operations on single variables without any need for synchronization blocks or locks. Which, well, believe me, they can be more error prone and lead to issues like deadlocks. We've also been talking about better performance as well. Since atomic variables use low level CPU operations like compare and swap. They're much more efficient than using locks. This is especially useful in high concurrency environments where many threads are updating shared data. So when we come back in the next video, we're going to talk about thread coordination.
