=== 1. What Will We Learn In This Course ===
All right. Hello, friends. Welcome to the Java Standard Edition SE 21 Developer course. So without wasting any time, let's just have a look at what we're going to be learning in this excellent course to get the Java SE 21 developer certification. So first let's just take a little peek into the Java SE 21 Developer Certification and the exams you'll take. And we'll then introduce Java. So in the Java section we're going to first cover what Java is and then how to install the JDK and the IntelliJ Idea. So after we get our computer up and running with Java for Java development, we're going to write our first Java program. Then we're going to learn all the different data types and operators used in Java. Next up we'll talk about the control statements and loops. Once you got that under your belt you'll be ready for understanding the method concept in Java and how a method is actually created. But wait, there's more. We're going to then introduce object oriented programming. So after learning that object oriented programming concept, we'll cover the object oriented programming structure in Java. So within this context We're going to learn practically all object oriented programming concepts such as class object inheritance, as well as abstract classes. Then later on, you'll be in a perfect position to learn about the string class, which has an essential place in Java, of course. Then we're going to examine the collections in Java and check it out. We'll follow that up by covering the lambda expression. Then you'll be ready to learn all about the streams API. And then next we'll be able to cover exceptions in Java. After that we'll learn about concurrency in Java. And after all of that, we will learn the concepts of date and time in Java. But don't go away yet, because we'll finally be able to learn the concepts of input and output in Java, which we call Java IO. Now all of this is to say yes, our course prepares you for certification. But besides doing some different sample applications, you're going to find many questions that you may encounter in that certification exam. Most importantly, the solutions to all those questions right here in this course. So I know you're ready. Let's get started.
