=== 1. Section Overview ===
All right, my friends. Hello and welcome back. So in this section we're going to learn another fundamental topic in Java programming language operators. All right. So let's have a look at the topics that we'll learn in this section. First let's understand what the operator actually is. Next we'll talk about the arithmetic operators. Then we'll talk about the assignment operators. Next we'll learn the unary operators. And then we'll talk about the equality and relational operators. Next we'll learn the conditional operators. Then we'll be ready to learn the bitwise and bit shift operators. And lastly we'll talk about operator precedence. I don't know if you noticed, but no there are no smooth operators. All right. Now I've got that song stuck in my head.

=== 2. Arithmetic Operators ===
Well hello my friends. Welcome back. So in this video we're going to learn what operator means in Java and arithmetic operators or arithmetic if you prefer. So operators right are the special symbols to perform specific options such as arithmetic, logical etc.. So when we're talking about operators we come across a new term operand. You might remember it from math class, but maybe not now the value that the operator operates on, that's what's called the upper end, the value that the operator operates on. For example, in the expression five plus four, the five and the four are both operands, and the plus sign is an operator. Okay. So that's pretty clear what that is. Let's learn the arithmetic operator, which is one of the operators in Java. The Java programming language provides operators that perform addition, subtraction, multiplication, division and remainder. So these are basic mathematical operations that you probably know and can do in your head. Plus is an additive operator. It adds two operands. Minus is a subtraction operator. It subtracts the right operand from the left. Asterisk is a multiplication operator. It multiplies two operands. Forward slash is a division operator. It divides the left operand by the right one. The type of division result is float by default. Now percent is a remainder operator. So this symbol might look new to you. It it divides one operand by another and returns the remainder as its result. Okay. So let's try to understand Java operators with examples. So in your exercise project go ahead and right click on the source folder select new Package. Specify package name as operator. Let's now create a Java class in this package. A class name will be arithmetic operator. Lastly, I'll add the main method. All right. So now let's declare three variables with the double type. First number one and assign 8.4. Okay second number two. And assign 4.2. And then last result with the initial value 0.0 RC3. So now you want to first assign number one plus number two to the variable result. All right so let's show the result value by using our print method. And we may run the program after all the operations. Great. So let's copy the code and change the operator to the subtraction operator. And now change the operator in the print method. All right. So let's make changes for multiplication. Good. And we'll change it for division. And finally let's change it up again for remainder as our operator. Okay. That's also let's run the code. And you see the result in the console. Number one plus number two equals 12.6. So ignore the many zeros after the six. And the last one. The reason the output looks like this is because the loss of precision that occurs when doing operations with floating point numbers. This just has to do with the way the computers represent decimal numbers in binary. Now some formatting can be done to fix this, but for now let's just stay focused here. Number one minus number two equals 4.2. Number one multiplied by number two equals 35.28. Number one divided by number two equals 2.0. Number 1%. Number two equals 0.0. So the remainder is zero. Also the plus operator can also be used for concatenating two strings together. So let me show you what that looks like. Let's create two strings. The name of the first string can be str one, and its value can be Java and a space. Now let's create a second string. And the name of this can be str two. And its value can be programming. See where we're going. Now let's create the third string. Name of the string is str three and its value will be str one plus str two. And let's print the str three to the console. So. Let's run that code. And now you can see the result is Java programming. Yes I told you it was fun. All right. So that's how arithmetic or arithmetic operators in Java work. Let's go ahead and take a short break. I want to see you in the next video though.

=== 3. Assignment Operators ===
All right. Hello everybody. Welcome back. So in this video let's talk about assignment operators. The assignment operators are pretty much the most common operators. An assignment operator assigns the value on the right to the operand on its left okay. So equal to is a simple assign operator. It assigns values from the right side operands to the left side operand. Plus and equal is an add and assignment operator. It adds the right operand to the left operand and assigns the result to the left operand. Minus and equal are subtraction and assignment operators, so it subtracts the right operand from the left operand and then assigns the result to the left operand. Asterisk and equal is a multiply and assignment operator, so it multiplies the right operand with the left operand and then assigns the result to the left operand. The forward slash and the equal is a divide and assignment operator. So it divides the left operand with the right operand, and then assigns the result to the left operand, and that leaves us with the percent and equal. Now it's a modulus and assignment operator. So it takes modulus using two operands and then assigns the result to the left operand. So I think that will become clear with a few examples. So let's do up some examples with assignment operators. So go back to the exercise project and right click on the operator package and then select new class. Specify the class name as assignment operator. And lastly I'll add the main method. Okay. So let's start to code. We're going to declare here three variables with the int type. So first x and assign 22nd y and assign 15 and then last z with initial value zero. Now let's assign x plus y to variable z. I know some of you guys say z, but I say z. So this is a simple assignment operator. So let's print the result by using our print method. And we may run the program after all the operations. Now let's copy the code and change the code with z plus equals x. So now this is an ad, an assignment operator. It's the same as z equals z plus x. And now let's change the code with z plus equals x in the print method. Let's copy the code and change the code with z minus equals x. And then this is a subtract and assignment operator. So it's the same as z equals z minus x. Now we can change the code with z minus equals x in the print method. So let's copy the code again and change the code with z asterisk equals x. And now we have the multiply and assignment operator which is the same as z equals z multiply x. And now we can change the code with z asterisk equals x in the print method. Now we'll copy the code again and change the code with z. Divide equals x. And now we have a divide and assignment operator. So it's the same as z equals z divide x. Now we can change the code with z. Divide equals x in the print method. Now let's copy the code and change the code with z percent and equals x. So now this is the modulus and assignment operator. And it's the same as z equals z percent x. Now we can change the code with z percent and equals x and the print method. Okay. So that's it. So let's run the code. So as you see in the console x plus y equals 35. So the current value of z is 35. The value of x is 20. So z equals z plus x equals 55. The current value of z is now 55. So z equals z minus x is the with 55 -20. So the result is 35. The current value of z is now 35. So z equals z. Multiply x is the same with 35 star asterisk 20 times right. So the result is 700. The current value of z is now 700. So z equals z. Divide x is the same as 700 forward slash 20. So the result is 35. The current value of z is now 35. And lastly z equals z percent. X is the same 35% sine 20. So the result is 15. And that means that the remainder is 15. All right. So that's how assignment operators go. Why don't we take another short break here. And I'll see you in the next video.

=== 4. Unary Operators ===
Well. Hello everybody. Welcome back. So here's a video where we're going to talk about unary operators. The unary operators require only one operand. They perform various operations, such as incrementing and incrementing a value by one, negating an expression or inverting the value of a boolean. So let's have a look at these operations. Plus this is a unary plus operator. It's used for giving positive values. It's only used when deliberately converting a negative value to a positive minus. This is a unary minus operator. It's used for negating the values plus plus. This is an increment operator, so it increments a value by one minus minus. This is a decrement operator. It decrements a value by one exclamation mark. So this is a logical complement operator. It inverts the value of a boolean. So why don't we do up some examples with unary operators in the exercise project. Right click on the operator package and select new class and specify the class name as unary operator. And lastly I'll add the main method okay, so let's start to code. Let's declare two variables. First the number with double type and assign 7.6. So second is check with boolean type and assign true. So now in the first print method we'll use a unary plus operator. So let's copy the print method by using the shortcut. And in the second print method we can use unary minus as our operator. In the third print method, we'll use the increment operator and the fourth print method we can use the decrement operator. And in the last print method we can use the logical complement operator. All right. So that looks right. So that's pretty much it. Let's run the code. And remember that the value of the number variable was 7.6. And as you see right here in the console plus number equals 7.6. So there's no change. The minus number equals -7.6. It inverts the sign of the number variable. Plus plus number equals 8.6. So that increments the value by one. Minus minus the number equals 7.6. So that decrements the value by one. So not is check equals false. The first value of is check was true. And then it inverts the value of the boolean. So in Java we can also use plus plus and minus minus as operators for both prefix and suffix. However, there is a significant difference when using increment and decrement operators as prefix and suffix. So why don't I show you by an example? So let's go ahead and declare variable result with double type and assign 4.7 to it. Now in the first print method. Let's print the own value of the result variable. And let's duplicate this line in the second method. Let's use the increment operator as the suffix and write result plus plus in the third method. We can write the result. In the fourth method. We will use the increment operator as the prefix and write plus plus result. In the last print method, we'll just write the result again. Yeah. So that's all. Let's run the code. And now you see the results in the console. So when the first print is executed the original value is evaluated first. Then in the second print method, the value of the result variable was first printed to the console, then increased by one, and for this reason the second result is 4.7 once again. Now you got to pay attention to this, right? If you use the increment or decrement operator as the suffix, first, the variable value is executed and then the increment or decrement operator is executed. So the new value of the result variable is 5.7. Now. Therefore, in the third print method 5.7 got printed to the console. In the fourth print method, since the increment operator is used as prefix first, the value of the result variable is increased by one, so the new value is 6.7. And then it was printed to the console. So the 6.7 was printed to the console. Yeah. And for the last print method the current value of the result variable is printed on the console once again. So that means it's 6.7. All right. There you go. Let's take a short break. I'll see you in the next video.

=== 5. Equality and Relational Operators ===
All right. Hello everybody. Welcome back. So check it out. In this video we're going to talk about equality and relational operators. The equality in relational operators determine if one operand is greater than less than equal to or not equal to another operand. So let's have a look at these operations. Equal equal. This operator checks if the values of two operands are equal or not. And if yes, then the condition becomes true. Exclamation mark and equal. So this operator checks if the values of two operands are equal or not, and if the values are not equal, then the condition becomes true. Births greater than sign. This operator checks if the value of the left operand is greater than the value of the right operand, and if yes, the condition becomes true. Less than sign. This operator checks if the value of the left operand is less than the value of the right operand, and if yes, the condition becomes true. Greater than or equal sign. This operator checks if the value of the left operand is greater than or equal to the value of the right operand, and if yes, then the condition becomes true. Less than or equal sign. This operator checks if the value of the left operand is less than or equal to the value of the right operand, and if yes, the condition becomes true. Rthy. So I'll show you some examples with equality and relational operators. So in your exercise project just right click on the operator package and select New Java class. Specify the class name as equality relational operator. And I'll just go ahead and add the main method. Okay. So let's start to code. We'll declare two variables with the int type first. A and assign two second. B and assign five. In the first print method we'll use the equal to operator a equal to b. And let's copy the print method by using shortcut. And in the second print method we'll use the not equal to operator. And in parentheses a not equal to b. Now in the third print method we can use the greater than operator. A greater than b. And in the fourth print method, we'll use greater than or equal to as our operator A is greater than or equal to B, and in the fifth print method, we'll use the less than operator A less than b, and in the last print method we can use the less than or equal to operator a less than or equal to b. All right that's all. So let's run the code. And what do you see in the console. A equal to B is evaluated to be false a not equal to b is evaluated to be true a greater than b is evaluated to be false a greater than or equal to B is evaluated to be false, a less than B is evaluated to be true, a less than or equal to b is evaluated to be true. So why don't we change the value of the variable with a five. So now A equals five and b equals five. And let's run the code again and compare our results. A equal to b is evaluated to be true. A not equal to b is evaluated to be false. A greater than b is evaluated to be false. A greater than or equal to b is evaluated to be true. A less than be evaluated to be false. A less than or equal to B is evaluated to be true. All right my friends, that is what the equality and relational operators look like. Why don't we go ahead and take a short break. I'll see you in the next video.

=== 6. Conditional Operators ===
All right, my friends. Hello there. And in this video I want to just briefly talk about conditional operators. So conditional operators are used for checking multiple conditions together. So why don't we have a look and see what we can understand about conditional operators. Conditional and operator. So this operator is represented by the symbol ampersand. Ampersand. Now in this operation the result is true if both operands are true. So this operator doesn't check the second condition. If the first condition is false right. It'll check the second condition only if the first one is true. The conditional or operator. So this operator is represented by the symbol double pipe. Now in this operation the result is true if either of the operands is true. Does that make sense? This operator doesn't check the second condition. If the first condition is true, it checks the second condition only if the first one is false. Ternary operator. This operator is represented by the symbol question mark colon. This operator consists of three operands and is used to evaluate Boolean expressions. This operator can be thought of as a, I don't know, a shorthand for an if then else statement. Now we're going to get into that a little deeper in the control flow statements of this lesson. But first let's make some examples with conditional operators. In the exercise project, right click on the operator package and select new Class And specify the name as conditional operator. Okay. So let's start to code. So we'll declare three variables with the int type first number one and assign five, second number two and assign eight. And lastly number three and assign 12. Okay. So let's declare a variable result with the boolean type. The default value for a boolean is false. So we'll use the conditional and operator and assign the result to the variable result. If number one is greater than number two, and number three is greater than number one. Then the result is true. Else the result is false. Now, in order to get the result to be true in the conditional and operator, all Boolean expressions must be true. So now let's print the result value by using the print method. Okay, so now we can run the code. And you see it in the console. Result equals false because number one is not greater than number two. So now if we use the conditional or operator we can assign the result to the variable result. So if number one is greater than number two, or number three is greater than number two. Then the result is true. Else the result is false. So in order to get the result to be true in the conditional or operator, at least one expression must be true. So we'll copy the print method. Alrighty, so let's run the code and you can see that in the console the result equals true because number three is still greater than number two. Now let's have a look at the ternary operator. So we use the ternary operator and assign the result to the variable result. Okay, so if the number one is less than the number two. Question mark true. Colon false. So if the condition is true, the value just after the question mark that is true will be assigned to the result variable. Okay. So if this condition is false this time the value just after the colon that is false will be assigned to the result variable follow. So let's copy the print method and paste it here. All right let's run the code. So the result is true because the number one is less than the number two. And you see how that works. Great. So tell you what. Why don't we wrap it up here I'll see you in the next video.

=== 7. Bitwise and Bitshift Operators ===
Well hello my friends. Welcome back. So in our previous videos we learned the basic operators that we use in Java. Now in addition to these basic operators, we've learned there are some operators that we do not use that much. But you still really do need to know these are bitwise and bit shift. Yeah, they're both operators. Of course you might not even ever use these operators. So I'm just going to briefly explain them just for the sake of your familiarity. So why don't we go ahead and have a look. The first one is bitwise and operator. Now it's represented by an ampersand okay. So this operator compares numbers in the binary system. If both numbers in the same digit are one, the result is one. Otherwise the result is zero. Okay. The second operator is the bitwise exclusive or operator. Now it's represented by a pipe. Okay. And this operator compares numbers in the binary system. So if both numbers in the same digit are zero the result is zero. Otherwise the result will be one. The next operator we have here is the bitwise exclusive or operator and it's represented by a carrot. This operator compares numbers in the binary system. Now, if both numbers in the same digit are different from each other, the result is one. Otherwise the result will be zero. The next operator is the bitwise complement operator. So it's represented by a tilde. And this operator inverts a bit pattern. So that means it makes every 0A1 and every 1A0. So, for example, if you apply this operator to a value whose bit pattern is 0000. This operator converts it to 1111 or vice versa. So in short, this operator inverts each digit in the binary system. So we've got another operator here. This is the signed left shift operator. So it's represented by a double less than sign. The signed left shift operator shifts a bit pattern to the left. Okay. So the bit pattern is given by the left hand operand and the number of positions to shift by the right hand operand. So in other words it adds the zero as much as equal to the value of the right hand operator given to it to the end of the number. And that's in the a binary system, of course. So the last operator we have here is the signed right shift operator. It's represented by a double greater than sign. So the signed right shift operator shifts a bit pattern to the right. The bit pattern is given by the left hand operand and the number of positions to shift by the right hand operand. So in other words, it deletes the digit as much as equal to the value of the left hand operator given to it from the end of the number. And that's again in the binary system. All right. So that's a whole bunch of theoretical information about bitwise and bit shift operators. And why don't we practice a little bit. Yeah. Yeah. What a good idea huh. Okay. So once you're in the exercise project right click on the operator package and select New Class and specify the class name as bitwise Bitshift operators. Okay, let's first start with the bitwise and operator. Okay. So first up we'll need to define two integer variables right. Int num one equal eight and int num two equal nine. All right. So now let's have a look at the binary equivalent of these variables. So the literal eight is 1000. In the binary system the literal nine is 1001 in the binary system. Right. Now hopefully you remember bitwise and will compare each digit among itself. And if both digits are one, it will calculate that digit to be one. Otherwise it will calculate it as zero. So the fourth digit will be one, since the fourth digits are both one. Cool. The third and second digits will be zero, because the third and second digits are both zero. The first digit is still zero because the first digit of the first number is zero. Since the first digits are zero, the result will be zero. Therefore, if we compare these two numbers using the bitwise and operator, the result will be 1000 in the binary system, and this will be equal to eight in the decimal system. So now let's go ahead and print all that to the console. So first let's print the binary equivalent of the num one variable to the console. Good. So now let's copy this line and paste it twice. And I'll change the variable to num two. Okay. Now in the last print method let's print the binary equivalent of the result. So here I write number one. Ampersand number two. This will be number one. Ampersand number two. Now finally let's print the equivalent of the result in the decimal system. Now, to print to the console in the decimal system, I will delete the two binary string method here. I'll also need a title for these operations. All right so let's run that and observe. Yeah. So you can see the binary equivalent of num one is 1000. The binary equivalent of num two is 1001. The binary equivalent of the result of the comparison operation is 1000, and the decimal equivalent of the result is eight. Good job. So you see what's going on here, right? As a result the bitwise and operator makes the result one. If both numbers in the same digit are one. Otherwise the result is zero. All right. So why don't we go ahead and look at what's next up bitwise exclusive or. So first I'll need to copy these lines and paste them in here. Now the name of the first variable can be num three. And the name of the second variable can be num, for their value can remain the same. So bitwise Or will compare each digit among itself, and if both digits are zero, it will calculate that digit as zero, otherwise it will calculate it as one. Now considering that information, let's compare both numbers with the operator bitwise or. The fourth digit will be one. Since the fourth digits are both one, the third digit will be zero. Since the third digits are both zero, the second digit will be zero again, and since the first digit of the second number is one, the first digit of the result will be one. So therefore, if we compare these two numbers using the bitwise Or operator, the result will be 1001 in the binary system and this would be equal to nine in the decimal system. So now let's print all that to the console. So I want to change the name of the variables and the operator sign. All right. So let's run it and see. So the binary equivalent of the result of the comparison operation is 1001. And the decimal equivalent of the result is nine. Okay let's have a look at the bitwise exclusive or. So I'll first copy these lines paste them on in here. And I will change the names of the variables to number five and number six. I'll not change their values again though. The bitwise exclusive Or operator compares each digit among itself. And if both digits are different, it will calculate that digit as one, otherwise it will calculate it as zero. So considering all that, we can compare both numbers with a bitwise exclusive or operator. So the fourth digit will be zero, since the fourth digits are both the same. Third digit will be zero again, since the third digits are both the same. The second digit will be zero again since the second digits are both the same, but since the last digits are different, the last digit of the result will be one. So therefore, if we compare these two numbers using the Exclusive-or operator, the result will be 0001 in the binary system, right? So it's going to be equal to one in the decimal system. So let's print all that to the console. I will change the name of the variables and the operator. Okay, so now I can go ahead and run the project. And yeah. So as you can see, the binary equivalent of the result of the comparison operation is one. Now of course there are actually zeros to the left of this. But the zeros on the left do not appear in the output. And the decimal equivalent of the result is one okay. Okay. Yeah. So we're done with the bitwise exclusive Or operator. Why don't we have a look at the signed left shift operator. So I want to first copy only the first variable. And I will copy these two print methods. And lastly I'll copy the last two print methods. Now the variables name will be num seven and its value will remain the same. The signed left shift operator shifts a bit pattern to the left. So for example, let's shift this number two digits to the left. And for this I'll write two to the right of the operator follow. So this means adding two zeros to the end of the number by the way. Right. So our new number is 100000. And this corresponds to 32 in the decimal system. Now let's print that to the console. So I'm going to change the title variables name and the operator. Okay. Let's run this and observe. Yeah. So you can see the binary equivalent of the result of the operation is 100000 decimal equivalent of the result is 32. Good, good. Let's move on and have a look at the signed right shift operator. So I'll need to copy and paste these lines. And I'll change the variables name to num eight. The signed right shift operator, remember shifts a bit pattern to the right. So for example let's shift this number two digits to the right. And for this I'll just change this operator to double greater than right. And what this means is just delete the last two digits. So our new number is one zero. And it will correspond to two in the decimal system. Right. Of course. Now let's print it to the console. So I'm going to change the title the variables name and the operator. Here. Now let's run it and see what happens. And as you can see the binary equivalent of the result of the operation is one zero. The decimal equivalent is two. Okay. So we do have another one here. Let's have a look at the unary bitwise complement operator. So first I'll just copy these lines, paste them here and the variable's name will be num nine. Now you do remember right? The unary bitwise complement operator inverts a bit pattern, so it inverts every 0 to 1 and every 1 to 0. But of course you would need to be a little careful when using the bitwise complement operator, because the result of this is calculated slightly differently, because when you use this operator, the compiler calculates the number you are processing as 32 bits while calculating. Now don't worry, you'll definitely get it once we get through the example. Okay, if I apply this operator to this variable, it's going to invert the digits to be 0111. And this corresponds to seven in the decimal system. Right. But since the compiler perceives it as 32 bits, it's going to also convert the leading 28 zeros of this number to one. You follow. So the binary equivalent of this would look like that. So it's going to print the result as minus nine not seven. So in other words it will print the difference between 16 and 7 to the console. Because we have processed a four bit number. And in this case we will look at the two's complement of it. That would be 16. So as a result it will subtract 16 from seven and print the result as minus nine to the console. So now let's move along carefully and print this to the console. I'll change the variables name, title and the operator sign. Now we can run it and observe the output. Yeah. So here you see, although we are using a four bit number, it also adds the 28 leading zeros and converts all zero digits to one and 1 to 0. And the decimal equivalent of this result is minus nine, not seven. But I do want to just leave you with a good example of using this operator. Again, I mean, that is a good example, don't get me wrong, but you'll see what I mean in a second. Just copy and paste. The name of this variable will be num ten, and the new value of this variable can be 33. Okay. Now look at the binary equivalent of this variable. The literal 33 is 00100001 in binary. Now notice here I wrote this in eight bits. So if I use the complement operator front end of the number, it will invert the digits as 110. Follow. So this corresponds to 222 in the decimal system. But since the compiler perceives it as 32 bits, it will also convert the leading 24 zeros of this number to one. So it'll print the result as -34, not 222. So in other words, it will print the difference between 256 and 222 to the console. That is -34 because we have processed an eight bit number. And in this case we'll look at the two's complement of it. That would be 256. And as a result it will subtract 256 from 222 and print the result as -34 to the console. All right. Now let's have a look and see the result on the console, and I'll change the variable here to num ten. Let's run it. And yeah, you can see although we are using an eight bit number, it also adds the 24 leading zeros and converts all zero digits to one and 1 to 0. And here we've got the decimal equivalent of the result is -34 not 222. All right. So that is using bitwise and bit shift operators. But like I was trying to tell you earlier in this video these operators are rarely employed. But you do need to be aware of their power. Okay Java is a powerful language. All right. So we're going to pause here. But we'll catch up in the next video I'll see you then.

=== 8. Char Data Type ===
Well. Hello there. How's it going now? I hope you're well. Really? Because up until this stage, we have learned the data types and operators used in the Java programming language. But there really is a subject that I need to. Well, I feel the need to elaborate on a little bit more. And that would be the char data type. Hopefully you remember we could only store one character in the char data type, but each character we store has an integer equivalent. Therefore, I would like to give you a little more detail about this char data type right here right now. You ready? Good. So we'll focus on the Ascii table is right up here on your screen. And you can see the decimal, the hexadecimal, binary and octal values corresponding to each character right here on this Ascii table. So for example the decimal number corresponding to the uppercase letter B 66. While the decimal number corresponding to the lower case letter B is 98. So the main thing to pay attention here to is that sometimes, although the type of the variable is char, the assigned value may be a decimal number. All right. So in this case you might be confused for a good reason. That's why for this reason we will indeed learn the char data type in much greater detail in this video. So let's get to it. Why am I talking about it? Let's just do something about it. So here we've got exercise project and you right click on the data type package. Select new and class. Specify the class name as char. Example. Okay so first off let's remember the char data type just for a moment. Char is represented as an integer between 0 and 65,535, and it can be used with integer arithmetic. Char is a single character. It can be any character from special characters to numbers and letters, but it's defined in single quotes. Now, why don't we practice this for a second? I want to create a variable type of char. Name. The variable can be C1. I will assign the uppercase letter H so the uppercase letter H so you don't have to look at the chart is equal to 72 in decimal. Now let's create another variable named c2. And I'll assign the number five as a character to this variable right. So the number five is equal to 53 in decimal. Yeah. So I defined the first variable as a letter and the second variable as a number. But can they be distinguished as letters or numbers in a char data type. That my friends, is a great question to answer. Let's test it out. So first let's just print the first variable to the console. S out double quotes C1 plus C1. Now let's see if the value stored by this variable is a letter or a number. S out double quotes is first variable letter. Question mark plus. Now to understand whether variable is a number or a letter we will use the is letter and is digit methods. So these are a couple of the many useful methods of the character class. So that's why I'm writing character dot is letter after the plus sign. So I'll write the C1 variable in parentheses. This value will be true if the first variable is a letter and false otherwise. Now let's see if it's a number. I will duplicate this line. This statement will be digit here. Also this method will be isdigit. It will return true if the first variable is a digit and false otherwise. Now let's copy and paste these three print methods for the second variable. And I'll change the variable name to C2. All right. Yeah. Let's have a look. Now, as you can see, the first variable is a letter. So the first condition is true. And since h is a letter the second condition is false. It is not a digit. So let's have a look at the second variable. Since the second variable is a digit, the first condition is false because five is not a letter. Also, the second condition is true because five is a digit. Now did you notice each character has a decimal equivalent here? So in other words, when we create a variable of char data type and for example assign the value 66 to this variable, we actually assign the character b to it. Let's check it out. So I'm typing 72 instead of uppercase letter H and 53 instead of the number five. Now let's run this application once more. And here you see the characters H and five are printed to the console again. Because we store it as a char data type, not an integer data type. So whatever corresponds to in the Ascii table, the compiler detects it. Now let's have a look at that in another example. So I want to create a new variable and we'll call it letter one of the data type char. And I'll assign the value 67 to this variable. And we'll define a second variable named num one of the data type int. And I will assign letter one plus three. Now let's create a third variable and assign the variable num one to this variable char letter two equal num one. Of course. Yeah, we get the compilation error. The reason for this. Well we're trying to transfer an int type variable to a char data type. And since the int data type is larger than the char data type, type conversion does not happen automatically. The compiler just says no way. So we got to fix this error and we'll need to just perform type casting. Now for this I want to select the Add Cast to char option from the Quick Fix dialog. Now let's print the variable letter two to the console S out double quotes. Letter two is. Plus letter two Now let's just guess the output before we actually run the application. Got to think it through first. So we assigned the value 67 to the variable letter one. 67 corresponds to a capital letter C in the Ascii table right. So in the second line we added three to this value. So the value of the variable number became 70. 70 also corresponds to the capital letter f. And then in the last line we converted the value 70 to char data type and assigned it to a new variable. Now, since the character equivalent of 70 is the capital letter F, the character F is currently stored in the letter two variable. Good. So as a result, we should see the letter F on the console screen. Now let's run the project and observe. And as you can see, the letter F is printed on the console screen. Now, it's not magic, but I think you do understand that a little bit better. That is the char data type. But I do want to continue our practice because yeah, practice makes well. Practice is practice and it helps make it easier anyway. So let's just create a new variable in the char data type. Char letter three equals 70. Now if you remember 70 is a letter F on that Ascii chart. So let's create a second variable of data type char char letter four equals. So I will assign the value letter three minus minus to this variable. Now I want to create a new variable with the data type Boolean. Boolean. Check one equals. Now after the equal sign we can do a little check like this letter for is equal to letter e. So the boolean variable will be true if the value of letter for is equal to letter e, otherwise it will be false, right? So now let's create another Boolean variable. Boolean. Check two equals. And the condition here will be letter three greater than letter d. Now let's print the check one and check two values to the console. But wait before running the project, let's try and guess the output. So let's think through the logic here. The value of letter three is 70. Here the unary decrement operator is written after the variable. So that means first the value of letter three will be transferred to letter four. Follow. And then the value of letter three will be decreased by one. So after compiling this line, the value of letter three will be 69, while letter four is 70. So letter three currently corresponds to the letter E and letter four to the letter F. All right. Good. Let's continue. In the first condition, it is checked to see whether the letter for is E or not. Currently, the result here will be false since the letter four corresponds to the letter F. Good. Now let's have a look at the next condition. The control here also checks to see whether letter three is greater than the letter D. So the current value of letter three is 69, which is the letter E. And since character e comes after character d, the condition here is true. So we should see false and true as our statements for the output. Sit back and observe, my friends. And as you can see, the first condition is false and the second one is true. So now I want to just change the second condition a little bit. And here I just want to use unary decrement operator, and we'll use it before the letter three variable. And let's have a look. So the value of the letter three variable was 69. And since the decrement operator is used before the variable, the value of the letter three variable will be decreased first. That is, it will be 68, right? Then the condition here will be checked. Now, since the decimal value corresponding to the letter d is also 68, this condition will be false because now both operands are the same. That is character D. Yeah. So let's observe. Yeah there you go. You can see the second condition is false now. All right my friends. So now you've got some more detailed information about the char data type. Why don't we take a break here. Let it sink in maybe. And I'll see you in the next video.

=== 9. Operator Precedence ===
All right. Hello everybody. Welcome back my friends. So in this video we're going to talk about operator precedence. Now it's important to remember and to know how Java interprets the symbols you use to perform specific operations and in what order it interprets them. Otherwise, we could write a program with one result in mind and receive an entirely different result. Right? So as you can see here in the table, the priority column is the most important because it defines the strict order in which Java interprets the symbols displayed in the operator column. An operator higher in the table always takes precedence over an operator that's lower in the table. Now here's the important and key point in this part. If you want to change the order in which an expression is evaluated, you have got to use parentheses. So any part of an expression that is enclosed in parentheses is evaluated first. So let's see how that works with an example of operator precedence. In the exercise project right click on the operator package and select new class and specify the class name as operator precedence. And let's declare a variable result with the int type and assign five plus two. Multiply by four. Okay, so let's print the result value by using the print method. Now we can run the code. Result is 13, not 28, because precedence of multiplication operator is higher than the additive operator. So here multiplication is performed before adding and the result value is 13. So I'll show you another example. So let's assign the in the parenthesis five plus two and multiply by four to the variable result. And let's copy the print method. Okay let's run the code. And the result is 28. So here the expression enclosed in parentheses is evaluated first And then the multiplication is done. So first five plus two equals seven is done. And then seven is multiplied by four and the result equals 28. We'll need to do another example though. Result plus equals 80. Slash 20. Percentage eight. Multiply three plus minus five. So let's copy the print method and paste it here. Okay. So what do you think the result will be before you go running the app. Let's figure it out. We got to guess the output right. So did you notice it's actually one of the trick operations where different operators get used in these kinds of cases. You should first look at the precedence of the operators and start the operation from that point. So let's have a look. Now you notice there are no parentheses. If there was an expression written in parentheses we would examine that first right. So since there are no parentheses let's have a look at the operators used. Now since the division modulus and multiplication operators are multiplicative operators. Operations using these operators will be performed first. Since these three operators have the same priority, the compiler will perform these operations from left to right. So that means it first divides 80 by 20. The result will be four. Then it looks at the modulus operator. Here, since four is less than eight it still accepts it as four. Then it goes to the multiplication operation and multiplies four by three, so the result is now 12. Then add 12 to -5 and the result is seven. Then finally it looks at the add and assignment operator and adds the final value of the variable result to seven. So it adds 28 and seven and the result should be 35. Let's see what happens when you run it. And just like that you can see the result is 35. And that's because the precedence of multiplicative operators is higher than additive operators my friends. So their precedence is higher than the assignment operators. All right. So let's do this. Let's make a new example with a unary operator precedence. So why don't we declare four variables with the int type first x and assign eight second y and assign four third z. Assign two and the last sum assign zero. So let's assign x plus minus minus y plus minus minus z to the variable sum. And let's copy the print method. Okay. So let's run the code. And the result is 12. Because the operator precedence of the unary operator is higher than the additive operator. Now you also have to take note that unary operators are used before the variable here. So in other words, the unary decrement operator will be applied to the y and z variables first. Therefore, the new value of y will be three, and the new value of z will be one. Yeah. So the value of x is already eight. Therefore eight, three and one will be added and then transferred to the sum variable. So in other words the result will be 12. Is that what you got in your head. Well let's actually change his example like this. Let's change the unary decrement operator in the y variable to a suffix. So what do you think the result will be now? Why don't we just walk through and guess it before we go running it right? So since the decrement operator is used after the y variable, the initial value of the y variable will first be subjected to the addition operation, and then the value of the y variable will be decreased by one, right. So in other words, the value of the y variable to be processed is still four. However, since the unary decrement operator is used before the z variable, the value of the z variable will first be decreased by one, and then the addition operation will be performed. Yeah. So in other words, the value of the z variable to be processed is one. So the operation here is eight plus four plus one. And that just means the output is 13. Yeah. Well let's run it and see if I'm right. And there you go. 13 just as you predicted. Good job. Now you want to take it a step further. Let's add the expression plus y to the end of this expression. So what do you think the result is going to be now? Let's just have a guess. Let's see. Here's the logic. Since the unary operator is used after the variable y, the value of y in this operation is still four, but after this step the value of y will now be three. Therefore, the value of y in the expression we added last will now be calculated as three. So the operation here will be eight plus four plus one plus three, which means the result is 16. All right. Well let's run it and check it out. There you have the result 16 perfectamundo. My friends. Now let's just change our example a little bit. Let's change the addition operator at the end to a multiplication operator. Ooh. Tricky tricky tricky, right. What do you think is going to happen now? Well let's examine it. Now you remember multiplicative operators take precedence over additive operators. So therefore the multiplication operation here will be performed first. So in this operation do you think the value of y will be calculated as 4 or 3. Yeah. If you say four you're wrong. But why is that. Let's see the values of the variables in order. X is already eight. We're clear about that since the decrement operators used as a suffix for y, the value of y here is still four. And since the decrement operators used as a prefix for z, the value of z becomes one, and the new value of y here is no longer four, but three. Okay, so now that we've clarified the values of the variables to be processed, let's perform the operation according to the priority of the operators. The multiplication operation is performed first and one times three is again three, then eight, four and three will be added together. In other words, the result should be 15. Let's go ahead and run it and see. And there you do see. The result is as expected 15. Now, I think that you had as much fun with these tricks of dealing with operators. Yeah. As I mean, I'm always having fun, so that's okay. But there are many more examples to understand the presidents of operators, but we're not going to do them. Now let's take a short break and come back for the next video.

=== 10. Expressions, Statements, and Blocks ===
Now in this section we will learn about Java expressions, Java statements, differences between expressions and statements, as well as Java blocks. So now that we understand the variables and operators and how they work, it's easier to learn about expression statements and blocks. You may ask, why is that? Well, we might actually combine variables and operators to form expressions. That's right. Expressions are the core components of statements. And statements may be grouped into blocks. That's why it's important to stay organized, right? Expressions consist of variables as well as operators and method calls, and those evaluate to a single value. So you'll see some examples of expressions illustrated in red. So here max speed equals 280, is an expression that returns int and data type. Int is not part of an expression, so typically accept data type and semicolon forms and expression result equals five plus eight is an expression and the result is now 13. In the brackets, x plus y multiplied by 2.5 is an expression. Also, it is named a compound expression. Now, when writing compound expressions, please be careful to indicate with parentheses which operators should be evaluated first. Number one equals to number two. Now that's an expression that returns a boolean. Similarly, equal is a string expression. All right. So let's look at statements. A statement forms a complete unit of execution. Note here please that it's necessary to add a semicolon at the end of a statement. Now expressions are part of statements. So you see examples of statements in the slide. All the examples are statements. So they are illustrated in red. Okay. So finally let's have a look at the blocks. So a block is a group of zero or more statements that is enclosed in curly braces. And you see an example of the block in the slide. Now there is one statement inside the block. A block may contain a whole lot of statements.
