=== 1. What is Thread ===
Well. Hello there. Welcome to the first lesson of the course. In this video, we're going to be diving into really important concepts in multithreading and also understanding what threads actually are and how they work. And why are you going to want to use them now? It's actually essential for understanding how modern applications can handle multiple tasks efficiently. So let's detail this. You can actually kind of think of a thread as a lightweight unit of execution, or in simpler terms, a single path where your program runs. So every Java program starts with at least one thread known as the main thread, which kicks things off by executing the main method. So if you happen to be scratching your head and asking why are threads so important? Well, like we're talking about, a thread is essentially a lightweight process or the smallest unit of execution. So it's crucial for understanding how modern applications can handle multiple tasks at once. And that's of course called multitasking. So you can think of a thread as a single path of execution. Now every Java program, of course, starts with at least one thread, the main thread, which is responsible for executing the main method. But you can have many threads running concurrently in your program, all working on different tasks simultaneously. So these threads are so important because they allow a program to perform multiple tasks at the same time. And that, my friends, is crucial for making your application responsive and efficient. So let's say, for instance, if you're browsing the web, one thread could be responsible for loading a web page, while another thread manages user interactions like scrolling or clicking. in a single threaded program. Each task has to wait for the previous one to finish. Now this can make the application feel slow or even unresponsive. But using multiple threads, tasks can run concurrently, sharing the same memory and resources, making everything smoother and faster. So, for example, let's say you're using a video editor. One thread might be rendering the video. Another thread is handling user input, such as adding effects. A third thread might even be saving your progress. So with all these threads working together, the application becomes way more responsive. And now that you know what a thread is and why it's useful, we're going to take a short break. Maybe ponder that for a minute. When we come back in the next video, though, we're going to learn how to create a thread in Java. So stick around. I'll see you in the next video.

=== 2. Create Thread Class ===
Well. Hello everybody. Welcome back. In the previous video we talked about what threads are in Java. So this time around we're going to learn how to create a thread using the thread class. Yeah we're going to go over how to create and run threads in Java using IntelliJ. So first off you can see that we've got a project here named threading right. So I selected Java 21 as a version and clicked create to set up the project. Now let's take a look at the code that we've written here to demonstrate how to create and run a thread using a thread class. Now, if you look carefully in the first part of the code, I've created a class called my thread that extends the thread class. So let's dive on into the code for my thread Java. So the key point here is that we're overriding the run method, and I write a message using System.out.println in here. Now this is where the actual work of the thread goes. When we call start on a thread object, the JVM invokes this run method in a separate thread of execution. Now let's have a look at the main Java file where we're creating and starting the thread and the main method, we create an instance of my thread which represents our new thread. The most important part here is calling my thread dot start. What this does is start the thread in a new execution path, allowing it to run concurrently with the main thread. The start method invokes the run method we defined in my thread dot Java. So when we run this code, the run method for my thread is executed in a separate thread. Printing thread is running. Meanwhile, the main thread continues execution and prints. Thread is started. So what's happening here is that the main method continues executing while the new thread runs in parallel. So it's really one of the key concepts in multithreading multiple paths of execution running concurrently. All right. So we've talked a little bit about thread. We have a couple of simple examples here of how to create and run a thread in Java by extending the thread class. But guess what. Next time when we come back we're going to look at how to achieve the same thing using the runnable interface. Stay tuned. I'll see you on the other side.

=== 3. Create Runnable Class ===
Hi everyone. Welcome back. So in the previous video we learned how to create threads by extending the thread class. And it was kind of simple and straightforward. Now you know how to do it though. But that's real easy way to create threads. We're going to explore now a more flexible approach using the runnable interface. So how's this going to work? Well, instead of extending the thread class we create a class that implements runnable. So in this class we define the code that will run in a separate thread inside the run method. All right let's break it down a little bit. First we create a class called My runnable. And in this class we implement the runnable interface. This means we need to define the run method where the threads actual work will happen. Then in our main class we use a thread object to execute this runnable. Instead of extending thread, we pass an instance of my runnable to a new thread object and then call start to begin execution. After that, I write a thread start message. So when we run this code, the run method from my runnable is executed in a separate thread. Printing thread is running. Meanwhile, the main thread continues execution and prints. Thread is started. So now what's the key difference here compared to extending the third class from the runnable interface allows us to separate the task from the thread management. This is what gives us more flexibility, especially if you need your class to extend something else, or if you want to decouple the task logic from the thread execution. You'll know about that more when we get into deeper subjects, but extending the thread class is really straightforward, right? But it does limit flexibility. Using runnable lets us keep the logic and thread management separate, making the code cleaner and more modular. To summarize all that, using runnable is generally the better approach, especially when you want more flexibility or modularity in your code. Now you can still create threads, but the actual task logic is separated from the thread execution. There it is. So in the next lesson, we'll dive a little bit deeper into thread management and learn about the life cycle of a thread. Stay tuned. See you next time.
