=== 1. Section Overview ===
Well, everybody. We're back. Thanks for hanging in there. Now we're going to start a new section. And that means in this section we're going to learn some methods in Java. So first we're going to learn what a method is and how to create methods in Java. Then we'll get into the declaration and the calling of methods. After that we'll learn the method types. Then you'll be ready to learn the method return types. Then we can learn the Java variable arguments. And lastly we'll learn the method overloading. Yeah. So if you're not overloaded already let's get to it.

=== 2. What is Method ===
All right my friends. So in this video we're going to really understand the method in Java. What is the method. How do we declare a method. But basically the method is a set of statements to perform an operation. Methods are also known as procedures or functions. But you can think of methods as the tools in your toolbox. You design and build these tools to do specific tasks, and they perform exactly what they're designed for without worrying about anything else. So, for instance, you can create a method that subtracts one number from another and returns a result. Now, whenever you need to perform this subtraction in your project, you just call this method as many times as you like, and it's going to subtract the numbers and give you the result every time. So that's generally what a method does. But why do we really need methods? The main advantage of the method is code reusability, just like you saw in this brief example I showed you. Um, you can actually write a method once and use it as many times as you want. So that means you don't have to rewrite the entire code every single time. So you can think of it as write once, reuse multiple times. I get a little excited about that because it's you will too. Don't worry. But you also have the opportunity to write more readable code that is free of complexity. And that's because of methods. That's why we're going to have a look at the form of a method. So you can see the general form of a method declaration. Let's talk about this a little bit. The private keyword is an access modifier. Now there are four access modifiers in Java. Public, private protected or default for the default one. Well you don't really need to specify any keyword, so it's optional if you don't use any keyword for the access modifier. In other words, you won't get any error because a compiler accepts it as default. We're going to learn about access modifiers in the coming videos. Don't worry. But check out the other keyword. This is static. It's also an optional specifier. You can see such specifier keywords final, abstract or static. And again, if you don't use any keyword for the specifier, you won't get any error. The double keyword represents the return type of this method. The return type is a data type of the value that is returned by the method. It can be a primitive type such as int, double long, or a class type such as string or void. Now this, my friends, is required. In other words, you have to define the return type of the method if you were to use the void as a return type, there is no need to use the return keyword. But if you use another return types as int, double string, etc., you've got to use the return keyword with a return value. All right. Now also each method has its own name. So a method name begins with a lowercase letter and compound words. So in multi-word names we write the first letter of each of the second and the following words capitalized. Doesn't happen to be mandatory, but we really do understand and enjoy the naming conventions. That's just the way things are done, and we'll continue to do it that way. We're going to talk about naming rules for methods later, but just remember name is required for each method. All right. Now a parameter is a value passed to the method. Methods can take one or more parameters. If the method has more than one parameter, then these parameters are separated by a comma. If methods work with data, we must pass the data to the methods. So this is done by specifying them inside the parentheses. If the method does not take any argument, simply leave the parentheses empty because the parentheses and curly braces are required for the methods. If any method is not declared void, then it must contain a return statement with a corresponding return value. The data type of the return value must match the methods declared. Return type. You can't return an integer value from a method declared to return a boolean. All right. Now we're going to cover the methods return type subject in greater detail. Well it's coming up next. The method body is enclosed between braces. The method body includes a declaration of variables and other codes of methods. And as a result, in this example, we define a method named divide with a double return data type and we have x and y parameters. So our method finds the division of x by y and saves the result in a new variable called result, and it returns a value of the variable result. Also, we can directly return the x y statement instead of assigning a new variable. You'll get used to it. Now let's make some practice with these method declarations. So I want to just close a previous project and open the exercise project. All right, so now I'll create a new package. And we'll call the package method. And now I'll create a new Java class in this package. And the class name will be methods. And lastly let's add the main method. All right. First we'll examine the main method. So as you can see the main method has public access modifier and a static keyword. The return type of the main method is void so it doesn't return any value. The method name is main and it takes an argument type of string array and the argument name is args. Good. Let's create some methods outside of the main method. So first I'll create a method in basic form void start parentheses curly braces. Now this is a method in the very simplest way and includes the required fields. The return type is void. The name is start and there's no parameter, but also the parentheses is required as well as the curly braces. Required. Required. Okay, now let's create another method. Double start two parentheses curly braces. So this method is a method that returns a value. The return type is double. And as you can see this time we get a compilation error. Because the return type is not void, it's double. We have to use return keyword at the end of this method with a return value. So I'll write return. And for example, let's say it returns 3.5. And as you can see, the error disappears. And also you can create a variable type of double and return this variable. For example double D is equal to 3.5. Now let's return the variable d. All right. So the important point to remember here is that whatever the return type you set at the beginning of the method, you should return a value of that type at the end of the method. So for example let's return string Java instead of double D. And as you can see we get that compilation error. There's a type mismatch error. Okay. So the required type is double. But the provided type is string. And it's not going to convert from string to double. It just can't do it. Anyway let's create another method. Public static void. And the name of it will be test this time. Parentheses and curly braces. See this method is also valid. It has public access modifier and the keyword static and the return type of this method is void so it doesn't return any value. And the method name is test and this is a parameter list method. You can also change the place of the public access modifier and static keyword. And this is also valid. But you don't have to change the place of any of the other keywords. For example, you can't put the void keyword at the beginning. Or in other place. So it should be before the name of the method okay. Also, you can use other access modifiers or other specifiers. For example, we can write private instead of public, or we can write protected here. So we're going to learn all about access modifiers in the coming videos. So this is just an introduction. But also you can use the final keyword instead of the static keyword. Or you can use both the final and static keywords at the same time. So that's also valid. But check this out. You have to use only one access modifier. So for example, we wouldn't be able to use public and protected both at the same time together here. Right. So you see we get the compilation error. It even says illegal combination of modifiers protected and public. Don't worry, you won't go to jail but you'll just spend more time coding. Also, you won't be able to use more than one return type. So for example, this method cannot return the string at the same time because its return type is void, or you cannot use int and string at the same time. So in other words, you just only use one return type. Not anymore. Okay, let's go ahead and create another method. Public void test two parentheses curly braces. If you notice this method is a void method so it doesn't return any value. But we can also use the return keyword. It's also a valid usage, but this return keyword is redundant because this is a void method. But if you write the return keyword with a value. For example, if you write return three, yeah, you will get a compilation error. It says cannot return a value from a method with void result type. Duh. But check it out. You can fix this error in a couple of ways. First, just change the return type from void to int or second. Remove the return value. Now let's have a look at the naming rules of the method. Yeah, this spelling is correct according to the naming convention. Right. So it starts with a lowercase letter. The first letter of the second word is capitalized and the number is at the end. You can also separate words with an underscore. This is also valid. You could also use an underscore at the beginning. It's another valid way to go. You can use the dollar sign at the beginning. It's also valid, but check it out. You cannot use numbers at the beginning. Also, the method name cannot contain keywords or reserved words. Yeah. So let's say for example you can't write private here. And we talked about some of the keywords in the variables lecture. You can watch that again if you need to. But you can capitalize the first letter private because Java is a case sensitive language. So in Java private with lowercase letter p is not the same as private capital P with that uppercase letter. So in other words, you just need to pay attention to what you're doing. Now let's have a look at the user parameters and methods. I want you to notice that all of the methods we've created so far have no parameters, but we could always create some methods with or without parameters as we want. Now, as a parameter, we can use one or more and different data types. So before it gets too much, why do we need a parameter. Well I just want to explain it like this. Here's an example. So imagine that you have a coffee machine. This coffee machine is like the method. So it makes coffee when you ask it to write. But the type of coffee that you get out of the machine depends on the options that you select. Like the size of the cup, the amount of the sugar, whether you want milk or not. Okay, so these options are like the parameters that you pass to a method. When you select your preferences, the coffee machine takes those inputs, that is the parameters and makes your coffee exactly the way you like it. I like mine with a little hot cocoa in it. Now in programming, when you call a method, you can pass in parameters just like you select options on the coffee machine. The method then uses those parameters to perform its task according to the inputs you've put in or given in this case. Anyway, let's just make an example and you'll be able to see what I mean. Bring the analogy to life. So here is a parameterized method. Public void and the name of the method can be give drink. Okay. Now the first parameter can be the type string. The name of this parameter can be the drink name. The second parameter can be int and the name of this parameter can be size. Third parameter can be boolean and the name of this parameter can be with sugar and you can keep going. You can create way more parameters. You stopped me before we got to mocha, but actually it just all depends upon the purpose of the method that you've created. That is, what is it going to do and how should it do it? Also, you got to know that each parameter is separated from the other by a comma. In fact, if you use a semicolon or a dot instead of a comma here, guess what? You'll get a compilation error. Okay, so there's a few tricks about the method declaration in Java. Why don't we wrap that discussion up here and we'll do something else next time. I'll see you in the next video.

=== 3. Method Calling ===
All right. Hello everybody. Welcome back. So in the last video we kind of explored the basic structure of methods in Java. So these methods can be utilized wherever needed in our code. However the actions that we've defined within the method won't be executed if we don't call them anywhere. Yeah, anywhere. So in other words, the method exists, but it won't be able to do its job unless we call it. So how do we invoke a method that we've created? Let's get right to it right now. So Java method is called according to its functionality, and it's called in any one of these two situations. The first one is when it completes all the statements and then secondly when it reaches a return statement. So in this example we'll define a variable result Old with int data type. Its initial value is zero, and we call add number as our method with arguments of ten and 20. Now argument values are passed to the parameter. Arithmetic sum. That's the operation that's performed in the add number method. And the return value of the add number method is assigned to the variable result. And then we simply show the result value 30 on the screen. Also, we can directly use the add number method in the print line method instead of assigning a new variable and see how the result will be the same. Excellent. Let's take a little break here, and in the next video we're going to do some examples with methods. You'll get used to them real quick. See you on the other side.

=== 4. Types of Methods ===
All right. Hello my friends. Welcome back. So in the previous video we talked a little bit about the method declaration in Java. So in this video why don't we get to learning the types of methods and the return types of methods. And then we'll do a little bit of practice using methods okay. So we basically have two types of methods in Java. The first one is standard library methods and the second one is user defined methods. So Java of course has a library of predefined classes and methods organized into packages. Now in order to use these methods we'll import the packages and use them directly in our program. We will cover packages uh, in the next few slides. So let's remember first for example, the first Java program that we write together, we use the print line method to write Hello World on the screen. I'm sure you remember that vividly. The print line method is a standard library method. Then, of course, in addition to using Java predefined methods, we could always write our own methods in order to write a method. First you decide what you need to do. Then you write the definition of the method by providing the return type, name of the method, and the parameters. For example, the add number method that we defined in the previous slide is an example of user defined methods. Method return types. So every method in Java returns something right? Either some value or nothing if it returns a value. This value can be either primitive or non primitive. The void keyword Allows us to create methods which do not return a value. These methods perform a set of tasks without a return value, so when a method does not return a value, it's indicated by the keyword void before the name of the method. If you declare a method with primitive types, your return type method must be the same, right? So primitive methods return char byte, short, int, long, boolean, float, and double types. If you declare a method with non primitive types, your return type of method must be the same, right? Makes sense. Non primitive methods return reference data types such as object of class, string, stuff like that. So why don't we do some examples with methods? So if you go into the exercise project just right click on the method package and select New Java class and specify the class name as method example. And again I'm going to add a main method. Now outside the main method let's declare a static void method show with two int parameters num1 and Num2. And then we add the print method to display these numbers. So let's add a comment to the void method show and our comment is displays numbers. And now let's declare an other static int method add with two int parameters Num1 and Num2. And what does it return? It returns a sum of two numbers. All right. So in the method we declare a variable sum with int type. Now its initial value is zero. And then we assign num one plus num2 as an expression to the variable sum. And we return the variable sum. So now let's add a comment to the int method add. And our comment is returns the sum of two numbers. So now let's declare another static int method min with two int parameters num1 and Num2, and it returns the minimum of two numbers. Now when the method will declare a variable min with int type. And if number one is greater than number two, then we assign num two to variable min. Else we assign num one to variable min. And then we return the variable min. So now let's add a comment to the int method min. And our comment is returns the minimum of two numbers. Okay. So now let's call these methods from the main method. So our main method is static. So what does that mean. We have to declare the other methods as static in order to use it in the main method. So first we need to import the scanner class for getting input from the user. And then we show a message to enter two numbers by using the print method. So let's declare two variables that are named number one and number two, and then assign the next int methods of the scanner class to these variables. Now first we'll call the void method show. We pass number one and number two as a parameter to this method. Now there's no need to assign the void method to a variable because the void method returns nothing. So secondly we call the int method and we pass number one and number two as a parameter to this method. Then we assign the add method to the new variable A with the int type. And for the last one we will call another int method min. We pass number one and number two as the parameter to this method. And we assign the min method to the new variable b with int type. So now let's write the print methods. In the first print method we display some of numbers. And in the second print method we display the minimum number. Okay, so let's run the code. So we enter now eight and 12. And as you can see firstly the void method show is called. And it prints you entered eight and 12. Then the int method add is called and it prints some of numbers as 20. The last another int method min is called and it prints minimum number is eight. Yeah. So that's a basic or very simple example of understanding methods and how they work together. Now of course these methods are the methods that we define right. There are also standard library methods. For example the print method we use is a standard library method. Now apart from this, there are many other standard library methods. To give an example, instead of this method that finds the smaller of the two numbers, we can directly use the min method of the math class in Java. So in fact, let's just duplicate the last print method once. So here I'll write Math.min. Let's write the numbers that I receive from the user in parentheses. And let's run the code once more. And there you see we easily obtain the smaller of the two numbers with the min method of the math class. All right. So that's the basics of methods in Java. Why don't we take a short break and I'll see you in the next video.

=== 5. Java Variable Arguments (Java Var-Args) ===
Well. Hello my friends. Welcome back. So check it out. Here's a video where we explore variable arguments. In short var args in Java right. So var args. It's a great feature allows a method to accept a variable number of arguments. VAR args. So this functionality actually simplifies the implementation of methods that require flexibility in the number of parameters. So thinking way back. VAR args was actually introduced in Java five, enabling the declaration of methods with a variable number of arguments from that version onward, and these methods are commonly referred to as var args methods. So the var args method gets implemented using the concept of single dimensional arrays. Consequently, arguments can be distinguished within the var args method. By utilizing indices, a variable length argument is denoted by three dots. So have a look at your screen. Open your eyes. Come on, you can do it. Stick little toothpicks under your eyelids if you have to, but have a look at the screen anyway. The syntax here informs the compiler that the method named Get Person Info can actually be invoked with zero or more arguments for the last parameter, and consequently the last parameter. Hobbies is implicitly recognized as an array of type string. Now, an essential consideration when using var args is that while you can create parameters of other data types in a method utilizing var args, there should be at most one var args in a method and it must be the last parameter. Can't emphasize that enough, huh? Maybe I could, but anyway. Failure to adhere to this rule is going to definitely result in a compilation error. Yeah, you're going to learn to hate them. If you don't know what a compilation error is yet, or you haven't had any in your sleep. But anyway, there is our just introduction to var args. Let's dig in for some practice. So I just want to create a new class named var args example in the methods package. And to understand var args better I want to make a console application and it's going to go like this. We're going to create a method that receives the numbers the user wants to add. adds them up and prints them to the console. So the parameter of this method will be var args. Then after that collection, it will ask the user if they want to continue. Okay, sounds kind of similar to what we did before maybe. But stay tuned. It's not. Let's just get started. So here's where I create a method outside the main method. Public static void. And let its name be some numbers. And I'll create a var args parameter. String three dot numbers. So creating var args is just that simple. So just like a normal parameter, all you need to do is put three dots after the variable type. But we need to point out a few things. You've really got to pay attention to these. Okay. For example, there can only be one var args among the parameters of a method. It's got to be at the end. So for example let's just add one more var args here. Int three dots nums. Now you see that compilation error. I'll show you another usage that is also wrong. So let's say for example yeah let's define this parameter as a parameter of type int rather than var args int numbers. And there's the error again. So the reason for this is that var args must be the last parameter. Now you get it right. So for example let's just change the order of args with this parameter. And now the error is gone. So you really do need to pay attention for things like this. It could trick you, but no, you're not going to let it, right? So I want to continue just developing our application after that little sidebar. I'll delete this parameter only. VAR args will remain. So here's where I need to create two variables. The first one for the sum of the numbers. So I'll write int sum equals zero. The initial value of this variable will be zero. The second parameter will be for the printing of the plus sign between the numbers. So I'll need to write string entered numbers equals double quotes. And I'll create a for loop to sum the numbers that we receive from the user one at a time. Because yeah, if you've been paying attention there's a parameter. VAR args that is, the numbers entered by the user will be transferred to us as a string array, Right? So in fact, hopefully you can understand here that var args is an array. So for example instead of var args you could write a string array like this. String square bracket numbers. But you see even when you write it this way the program is going to run. But I want to just convert it back to var args because that's what we're doing. Now as a result, since the numbers entered by the user come to us as an array, we are going to need to access the elements of this array, right? The numbers entered by the user one by one and then subject them to the addition process. That means I'll need to create a for loop here. The initial parameter will be int I equals zero. The control statement will be I is less than the length of the numbers array. And the update statement will be I plus plus. Now I'll add the numbers and assign it to the variable sum using the add and assign operator. Sum plus equals numbers square bracket I. But we do need to make a small intervention here. Did you notice the type of var args is string? So that means we will get numbers from the user in the string type. Therefore, each element of the numbers array is actually a string, but the sum variable is int. So we've got a type mismatch. That means it will need to convert numbers from string type to int type. And for this we can use the parse int method of the integer class. All right. So that means after the equal sign, I'll just write integer.parseint. So I've got to write the string that I want to convert to int. That is each element of the array inside the parentheses numbers square bracket I. Now don't worry about it too much. We're going to learn all about the integer class and the Parseint method in way more detail than you ever could hope for, but that's coming up in some of the later videos. It's just enough to recognize it for now. Okay. So now you can see that we've taken the necessary action to sum the numbers entered by the user. But actually we are done with the sum process here though I do want to add a plus sign between each number entered by the user and show the result to the user that way. So that means I'm going to create an if else statement here. If the element in the loop is the last element of the array, we just need to write that number. But if it is not the last element, I will add a plus sign after the number. So let's do it like this. If I is not equal to numbers dot length minus one, that is, if the loop has not yet reached the last element of the array. If you remember, the index number of the last element of the array was one less than the size of the array. So I will add the number with the plus sign suffix to the entered number variable. That means I'll write enter numbers plus equals numbers square bracket I plus double quotes plus sign. Else. That is, if the loop has reached the last element of the array, I will only add the number to the entered numbers variable. So I'll just copy this line and paste it into the else block, and I'll delete this plus sign. And lastly I can print the result to the console. S out entered numbers plus double quotes equals plus sum. All right. So that makes our sum method ready. Let's just go ahead and jump into the main method and create a scanner object. Scanner. Scanner equals new scanner System.in. Now I'll create an infinite while loop to allow the user to perform as many operations as the user wants to. And the condition will always be true. So then let's show a message to the user using the println method and the message can be. Just. Please enter the numbers you want to sum, leaving a space between them. All right. Now we'll get the numbers the user entered and pass them into an array. String square brackets. Input numbers equals scanner dot. Next line. Now we also need to do an additional operation here. Right. Because the user will enter the numbers they want to sum leaving a space between them. Therefore when transferring these numbers into the array we should get rid of these spaces and add only the numbers. So that means for this, we'll need to split the numbers entered by the user according to the spaces. Yeah, we can handle this very easily with the split method of the string class. So that's why I'm just writing here. Dot split. I'll add a space inside the double quotes inside parentheses. See, this way the numbers entered by the user will be split by spaces, and each number will be added to the array as an element of the array. And yeah we're going to talk more about that method and some more useful methods of that string class in way more detail, but not until we get to the string section, which is after the brass section after the woodwind. Okay. Never mind. It's just later on in the course. Okay. So here getting back to what we're doing, we now have converted the numbers that we get from the user into an array. Okay. What we need to do now is call the some numbers method and send this array as a parameter. But before giving the parameter this method I do need to mention. Uh, yeah, it's kind of an important tip here. So first I will not pass any argument to this method. Remember why. Well, back in the previous video, when we call the method with parameters in the main method, we were getting that compilation error. Some people just have nightmares about this. But you remember the compilation error, right? When we didn't pass the parameters into this method. But in var args, if you don't pass any parameters, the compiler considers it an empty array with no elements. And that way it doesn't give a compilation error. So as a result, you're not going to get an error even if you don't assign any value to a. Methods. VAR args parameter. Sounds like a dream, huh? But if the method also has different parameters other than the var args. For example, it has one parameter of type int. Well, let's go ahead and add the int a as the first parameter. Now we have to assign a variable to this parameter. Otherwise we will get a compilation error. Remember we can only just leave var args blank. You got to pay attention to that. So I'll just delete this parameter. So I will first pass some values to the some numbers method. And I'll write 536. All right so you can see that right. We can add as much value as we want. Of course since we're going to get these values from the user. Yeah. Now let's delete these parameters and add the input numbers array as a parameter. Okay, so now our program can get the numbers from the user, add the numbers it gets and show them to the user. But we also need to ask the user whether the user will want to continue to make transactions or no. And for this, let's just show the message to the user something like this. Do you want to continue? Y for yes. N for no. And yeah so we'll get the user input. Assign it to a new variable char response equals scanner dot Nextline. Char at zero. Now I need to check the user's response with an if statement. If the response is equal to lowercase n or the response is equal to uppercase n. I will terminate the loop using the break keyword. Also, before terminating we could show a message like this. The program is terminated. And lastly, I'll just close the scanner object outside the loop. All right, so everything looks ready. Let's just run it and test it, see what we got. So now the program asks us to enter the numbers that we want to add, leaving a space between them. For example let's enter three 515 press enter. Okay. So it adds up the numbers and prints the result to the console. You see that? But now the program is asking whether we want to continue or not. Yeah. Let's press Y. So this time I'll enter ten 2030. Press enter. And of course the program adds up the numbers and prints the result to the console. Now this time I'll just press the letter N on the keyboard. Press enter. And that terminates the program. All right my friends. So we've now made a console application using Varargs. Very useful. We're going to build on it from here. So I'll see you in the next video.

=== 6. Method Overloading ===
All right, all right. Welcome back, my friends. Hello. So we're building on this idea of methods, right? That means it's time to talk about method overloading in Java, when a class has two or more methods by the same name but different parameters, it's known as method overloading. So in this example you will see three methods. These methods have the same name but different parameters. Now if we call these methods by passing an argument value, the compiler knows which method to call on the grounds of the method input. The return types or access modifiers of the methods can be the same or different. The important thing to remember though, is that they have different arguments with the same name. So if you create two methods with the same name and the same parameter, you're going to get a compilation error this time. So let me just show you an example with method overloading. So in the exercise project right click on the method package and select new class. Specify the class name as method overloading. Outside the main method, let's declare a static int method. Add with two int parameters x and y. And this method returns x plus y. Okay, so let's declare a static int method. Add with the same name but three int parameters x, y, and z. So this method returns x plus y plus z. Now let's declare a static double method add with the same name but two double parameters x and y. This method returns x plus y. These three methods have the same name but different parameters. So let's call these methods from the main method. Let's see what happens. We can call directly these methods in the println method. In the first print method, the message will be sum of two numbers. And we call the add. And now you can see the editor offers us three methods. I want to choose the add method which has two int parameters. So now I'm going to assign two parameters to the add method. Ten and 20 to display the sum of two int numbers. And the second print method will call the add method with the parameters ten, 20, and 30 to display the sum of the three int numbers. And in the last print method, we'll call the add method with parameters 4.6 and 8.4 to display the sum of two double numbers. Okay, so let's run the code. Now first the int method add is called with two parameters and it prints the sum of two numbers is 30, right? Then the int method. Add is called with three parameters and it prints the sum of three numbers is 60. And the last, the double method add is called and it prints. The sum of two double numbers is 13.0. All right. Now as a result, the methods must have the same name but different parameters in order to be overloaded. Now what we mean by different parameters is that the parameters can be of a different type, or if they are of the same type, the number of parameters must be different and the return type can be the same or different. Now for this idea of overloading, we're just talking about the name and the parameter. Same name, different parameter. All right. Remember this rule. Can't forget it. The access modifiers also can be different. For example, let's just change the access modifier of the second method to private and access modifier. The last method to protect it. Also, let's change the type of the second parameter of the second add method to long. Good. So right now all of these methods comply with the method overloading rule in Java because they all have the same name and the parameters are different in number or type. Okay. So let's copy and paste the first method. And there you see we do get this compilation error because there's already one of this method. The second one is not allowed. Now in order to overload this one we do need to change the type or number of parameters. All right. So that is the concept of method overloading in Java. All right. Why don't we just take a short break here and come back in the next video.

=== 7. Find Exponential Number ===
Well. Hello there, my friends. Thanks for coming back. So in this video we're going to do another project. And in this project we'll calculate the power of given numbers by using the power method of the math class. So we're going to learn how to implement the power method right. So firstly let me just close the exercise project and create a new Java project. And we'll just make the project name exponential number. The other options will be the same as the projects before. And lastly I'll click the create button. Now in this project just right click on the source folder and select New Package. Specify the package name exponential. Now I want to create a new Java class in this package. And we'll let the class name be exponential A number and I'll of course add the main method outside the main method. Let's declare a static int method pow with two int parameters num and power. So in the method we will use the POW method of the math class. And that way the POW method returns the value of the first argument raised to the power of the second argument. So the POW method is a standard library method and it's defined in the math class. Now if we try to return the POW method of the math class. To the int method, we get a type mismatch error, because the power method of the math class returns a double value. So in order to solve this problem, we will choose cast to int as our option to add code. Okay, so the problem is solved. Now let's call this method from the main method. First we will need to import the scanner class for getting input from the user. And look at this. We see a message to enter an integer base number by using the print method. So let's declare a variable base. and assign Nextint as a method of the scanner class to this variable. Now we get a message to enter an exponent by using the print method. Let's declare a variable exponent and assign the next int method of the scanner class to this variable. Now we can start to write the for loop. So in a for loop we declare the variable I and initialize it so its initial value is zero. Our test condition is I less than or equal to exponent and then it increments by one. Now we use the print method to display numbers and their powers. So we call the int method POW. We pass the number and exponent as a parameter to this method. And then finally let's close the scanner object by using the close method. Okay. So now let's run the code. So we enter six for the base number and enter five for the exponent. And look at the results in the console on each. For iteration, we call the POW method to calculate the powers of a given base number. So let's have a look. Six to the power of zero is one. Six to the power of one is six. Six to the power of two is 36. Six to the power of three is two. 16. Six to the power of four is 1296. Six to the power of Five is 7776. I was trying to do this in my mind faster than this now, but you can see why. We'll do it like this from now on. And you could always test other alternate values for understanding to your heart's content. But if you get it. Got it? Good. Let's move on to the next section.
