=== 1. Section Overview ===
But check it out, my friends. We're here with a brand new section. So in this section we're actually going to be talking about Java input and output. And you basically see it as Java IO out there in the industry. But it basically allows us to write data to a file and read data from the file. So obviously it's very important. Why don't we just have a look through the topics that we're going to cover in this section. So we're going to start with the output stream class. Then what follows the input stream class. Next up we'll talk about the reader class. Then we can talk about the writer class. And last up we'll need to cover serialization deserialization as well as non serializable objects. So you know what. If you're ready I'll see you in the next video. Otherwise take a short break and I'll see you in the next video. So either way, let's meet again later. Next video please.

=== 2. Introduction to Java IO ===
Are my friends. So here we are. Let's have a little chat about Java.io. Input and output. Commonly referred to as IO. Yeah. Fundamental concepts in computer programming. Allowing programs to communicate with the outside world. But in Java IO, the operations are crucial for tasks such as reading data from files, receiving input from users via the keyboard, as well as displaying output to the console or to other output devices. So within Java, we can receive data from the user with input and output operations. We can present some data to them as well. In addition all that thanks to Java IO, we can easily perform file operations. So let's say for example creating a file on the user's device. Writing data into this file and deleting or reading the data there. This is all within the realm of Java IO. All right. So Java's IO operations are primarily based on streams. And these streams represent sequences of data, so streams can be either input streams used for reading data, or output streams used for writing data. Java provides a rich set of stream classes and utilities, making it way easier to perform various I o tasks efficiently. So stream acts as a bridge between the data on our program and the file. So in other words, it's a kind of vein system, if you will, the veins and the arteries between our program and the file. Okay. This is not biology. Anyway, in our projects when it comes to transferring data, we actually encounter two primary options character based and byte based transfer. You with me? So character based data transfer involves conveying data as characters. This method supports Unicode. You know that's facilitating the handling of various alphabets. Character streams are employed for reading and writing individual characters of data. Now all character stream classes actually extend from the abstract base classes Reader and writer. Now, on the other hand, byte based transfer operations deal with data in byte ensembles, so this approach tends to be a bit more efficient compared to character based transfer. Byte streams are utilized for reading and writing single bytes. That would be eight bits of data. Now all byte stream classes extend from the abstract base classes. Input stream and output stream. In a Java, input, operations involve reading data from various sources, such as the keyboard files or even network connections. Enter the Java.util.scanner class because it provides a convenient way to read input from the keyboard. But alternatively, Java's iostreams, including input, stream, and reader, offer more flexibility for reading data from files or other input sources. All right, so output operations in Java involve displaying data to the console, writing data to files or sending data over network connections. The System.out.print line method is what's commonly used to print output to the console, but for more complex output tasks. Java's Iostreams says his output stream and writer provide functionalities to write data to files or other output destinations. So naturally, understanding the input and output operations in Java is pretty essential for developing robust and interactive applications. So whether you're reading user input, processing files or communicating over a network, Java is what provides powerful tools and APIs to handle a wide range of I o tasks effectively. So mastery of these concepts is going to be crucial for building high quality Java applications across various domains for the foreseeable future of your career as a Java programmer. But yeah, there you go. Those are the concepts sort of briefly tossed about, bandied about, if you will. But we're going to take a short break here, and we're going to dig into some of the details in the upcoming videos. I'll see you then.

=== 3. OutputStream Class ===
All right, my friends, here we are. So previously we had a bit of an introduction to Java I o. So within this video we're going to start performing some of our operations, like creating a file on the device and printing the data that we receive from the console to this file, or vice versa, reading the data in the file and displaying it to the console. All right. So with that in mind we're going to talk about the output stream class in this video. So then what is the output stream class. What's it going to do for you. Good questions. So the output stream class is used to transfer data from the program to the data source. This class is abstract. And remember since it is abstract it cannot be used directly. But of course we can use this class thanks to a variety of subclasses within this class. So applications that need to define a subclass of output stream must always provide at least a method that writes one byte of output. Now, this abstract class is actually the superclass of all classes representing an output stream of bytes. An output stream accepts output byte and sends them back to some sink. So we could say that this class moves data in bytes. So this class is included in the Java.io package. The main subclasses that are most widely known and most popular of the output stream class. Now let's have a look. We've got byte array output stream Fileoutputstream Objectoutputstream print stream. And there's more. But in order to demonstrate how byte streams work, why don't we focus on the file output stream? There are, of course, other kinds of byte streams that are used, but it's in a pretty similar way. They just differ mainly in the way that they're constructed. You don't have to think about that now. But why don't we have a look at the methods used in this class? So the method of this class used to write data is the right method. All right. So the right method has three different overloaded types. The first method is the right method. And that has a single parameter of the type int. This method writes one byte to the output stream. The second one is again a write method with a single parameter, but this time it takes a byte array as a parameter. Oh boy. Yeah you're thinking. Glad we learned all about arrays. So it writes bytes as much as the length of the specified byte array to this output stream. Now the last one is the three parameters write method. The first parameter is the byte array, the type of the second and the third parameters are both int Udur okay. The first parameter is the data to be written. The second parameter is the start offset in the data, and the third parameter is the number of bytes to write. So this method writes Len bytes from the specified byte array starting at offset off to this output stream. The general contract for this method is that some of the bytes in the array B are written to the output stream in order. Element B off is the first byte written, and b off plus Len minus one is the last byte written by this operation. Now the right method of output stream calls the right method of one argument on each of the bytes to be written out. Subclasses are encouraged to override this method and provide a more efficient implementation. So if the first parameter b array is null, a null pointer exception is thrown. If the second parameter off is negative or the third parameter, Len is negative or off. Plus Len is greater than the length of the array be. Then an index out of bounds exception is thrown. Now you'll see how all of this works as we go along. So don't start freaking out about having to memorize all kinds of stuff. But look, these three methods all throw the I o exception if an I o error occurs. Now in particular, an I o exception may be thrown if the output stream has been closed. So for this, when we use this method, we use something called the try and catch block. All right so that's how the right method goes. Let's have a look at this other method namely the flush method. Yeah. So the flush method just flushes the output stream and forces any buffered output bytes to be written out. Now the general contract of flush is that calling it is an indication that if any bites previously written have been buffered by the implementation of the output stream, such bytes should immediately be written to their intended destination you follow. So if the intended destination of the stream is an abstraction provided by the underlying operating system, for example, a file, then flushing the stream guarantees that only bytes previously written to the stream are passed to the operating system for writing. It does not guarantee that they're actually written to a physical device such as a disk drive. All right, so the flush method of the output stream actually does nothing. So really you're not going to get any errors when you don't use this method. But it might just be beneficial. We'll talk about that later. So the last method to look at is the close method. And the close method well closes out the output stream and releases any system resources associated with that stream, so therefore it increases the system's efficiency. Also, a closed stream cannot perform output operations and cannot be reopened. So yeah, in point of fact, the closed method of output stream doesn't do anything either. Therefore, you're not going to get any errors if you don't use it. But from the perspective of the system efficiency, yeah, we're going to use a closed method. So again that's a lot of theory. You're going to learn how it all works together as we practice. So why don't we do it. So first I want to create a new Java project. And what do we name the project. How about Java input output. Other options will be the same as the previous projects. So without changing anything I'll just click the create button and I will create a new package in class. And we'll name the package Java.io. Examples. And the class name will be Outputstream. Example. And lastly I'll add the main method. Okay. So now we're going to make an application like this. We're going to receive input from a user. Then with the help of the Fileoutputstream class which is the subclass of the output stream class, we'll create a file in the file directory of our computer, the name and the extension of which we're going to specify. We're also going to write the input we receive from the user to the file that we created. So if you're ready let's do it up. So first I want to take that data from the user. And that's by using the scanner class. Now let's send a message to the user. S out. Double quotes. Please enter a text. And let's take the text the user enters and transfer it to a string. String input text. Equals scanner dot. Next line. Okay so we have received the data from the user. We've transferred it into a string. What we'll do now is create a file in the file directory and print the text that we received from the user into this file by using the output stream class. So first I'll need to create a reference of the output stream class. And here you can see the output stream class is an abstract class. It is included in the Java.io package. So I'll choose this option and press enter. And let's name the reference output stream. So after this equal sign I want to call the constructor of the file output stream class. You got to remember, since the output stream class is abstract, we cannot use it directly. So for this reason we'll do those necessary operations using its subclass named Fileoutputstream class. So after the equal sign, I'll write new Fileoutputstream. So this Fileoutputstream class takes the name of the file into which we will write data as a parameter. So at this stage we're going to need to specify the name and the extension of the file that we'll create. We can specify directly here as a string expression. So for example, let's let this file be example dot txt. All right. So the example right is the file name and the dot txt is its extension. So of course you can change the file name. There's really not going to be a problem. But it's very useful of course to create the extension as TXT because we're going to open this file and check see if data has been written to it in a little bit. So if you type a different extension you might not be able to open the file. You understand. Okay good. Now let's go ahead and write the file name like this. But of course yeah a little caveat. In general it's not used like this because in large projects there might actually be a need to use the file name in different places. So if that were the case, it would be a lot more logical to define the file names as a constant, using the final keyword to avoid misspellings. That's why I'm going to define it above as the final string. So public static final string filename. After the equal sign, I'll write file name as a string. Okay, so now I'll use this file name as the constructor parameter of the Fileoutputstream class. Working together smoothly. So now let's have a look at where the Fileoutputstream class is actually defined. So I can press the Ctrl key and click the Fileoutputstream class. Now you notice that this class has a single parameter constructor of the type string and a condition statement gets created using the ternary operator inside the constructor. So why don't we examine this ternary operator? If the file name is not null, notice that a new file will be created with the expression new file, and the name of this file will be the string given as a parameter. So in other words, if we run the application at this stage, an empty file named example with the extension txt will be created in the file directory. All right. So that's a breakdown of the file creation process. Why don't we just continue from where we left off. So if you've been paying attention right. The compiler will give us a warning here. Because the file output stream class might actually throw a file not found exception. So the compiler actually prevents possible errors in Java I o operations. So therefore we must create a try catch block here. So what you do is position your mouse over this error and a quick fix dialog appears. And if you choose the surround with try catch option. Well the try catch block will be generated automatically. Easy peasy. Now we can continue. So I want to write the data as a byte array. And for this reason I'll convert the data that we received from the user into a byte array. We do that by writing it like this. Byte square brackets input text as byte array. Equals input text dot get bytes. So the get bytes method actually converts the string. It is applied to a new byte array. This way the text that we receive from the user gets converted into a byte array. And now for the last step Mwahaha writing this byte array into the example dot. TXT file that we created earlier. Now remember we were using the right method for this operation. So that means I'll write output stream dot write input text as byte array. Yep. There you go. You see, the compiler warns us again. So of course you remember the right method was throwing an IO exception. Therefore, we'll need to create a catch block again here. And this time I'll choose the add catch clause to surrounding try option. All right. So you can see that it adds it as a second catch block. Now in fact writing to the file is yeah it's finished at this stage. However using the flush method and closing both the output stream and the scanner with a closed method is going to be better for the efficiency of our program. So I'm going to first choose the flush method Outputstream flush. And secondly I'll choose the close method of the output stream. And lastly I will call the close method of the scanner. So you see how these methods are not really going to affect the operation of the program, but it will increase the efficiency. Now let's see. In addition to what we've done, if you want to, we could print a message to the console after the right method. And that way we'll be able to observe that the writing process has been completed successfully. So just after the right method, I'll write s out double quotes. And this message can be write operation was successful. All right. So now that everything's ready. Why don't we just run it and test, see what it says. All right. So the program is going to ask me to enter some text and we'll enter the text Java programming language. So after pressing the enter key the write operation was successful. Message is printed right to the console. Now I wonder if it was actually printed. So why don't we just check it right away? But how do you do that? Right. So where was this file created? Do you remember? Well, I'll answer it quickly. The example text file gets created in the project folder by default. So let's see if it's there. So I'll right click on the project name from the Project Explorer window. And now I'll select Show in System Explorer for the option. And as you can see we open the file directory where our Java projects are stored. I want to open the Java Input Output project. And there you see the example text files here. Let's go ahead and open this file. And sure enough, you can see the Java programming language text has been successfully written into this file. All right. So good job. So far so good. So this is how we've created a file on the device. And we wrote data to this file using the output stream class. But you remember right there was another overloaded version of the right method with three parameters. So why don't we go ahead and try to write only the word programming into this file using that method? Now you got to notice that the index number of p, which is the first letter of the word programming, is five. So for this I can write five for the second parameter of the right method. If you follow. So the other parameter is how many characters we want to write. Since the word programming is 11 characters, I'll write 11 for the third parameter. So let's rerun it and see what it says. So I'll enter Java programming language as my input text. And now the write operation was successful. So let's check the file again. And there you see only the word programming is written this time. So there you go my friends. You have now successfully completed your first Java IO application using the output stream and the file Output stream class, which is just one of the implementers of this class. Now, I know it's going to be useful for you to build on from here. So we're going to take a short break. And when we come back in the next video, we're going to learn how to read the data that we've written. So you don't have to go digging into your file folders. All right. All right. I'll see you in the next video.

=== 4. InputStream Class - Part 1 ===
Well. Hello my friends. Welcome and welcome back. So in the previous video, of course we talked about the output stream class. So that means in this video we're going to have a look at this input stream class. So the input stream class is used to get data from the data source into the program. This class is abstract and since it is abstract it cannot be used directly. But we can use this class thanks to the subclasses of this class. Now, applications that need to define a subclass of input stream must always provide at least a method that returns the next byte of input. Now, this abstract class is the superclass of all classes representing an input stream of bytes. So an input stream accepts input bytes and gets them into the program. So we can say that this class moves data in bytes, just like output stream. This class is also included in the in the Java.io package, and the main subclass is most widely known and popularly used. Of the input stream class are file input stream, byte array, input stream, object input stream, string buffer, input stream. And there's others. Now, to demonstrate how byte streams work, what we'll do is focus on the file input stream in this video. Now other kinds of byte streams are used and pretty much the same way. They differ mainly in the way they're constructed though. So why don't we have a look at the methods used in this class? So the method of this class used to read data is the read method. And the read method has three different overloaded types. The first method is the read method. With the read method we can actually read any data from a file. And of course there are going to be three types of this method. The first one is the parameter list read method. This method reads the next byte of data from the input stream. The value byte is returned as an integer in the range of 0 to 255. If no byte happens to be available because the end of the stream has been reached, the value minus one is returned. So this method actually blocks until input data is available, and at the end of the stream is detected or an exception gets thrown. The second one is again the read method with a single parameter, but this time it takes a byte array as a parameter. This method reads some number of bytes from the input stream and stores them in the buffer array. B the number of bytes actually read is returned as an integer. The method blocks until input data is available. At the end of the file is detected, or an exception gets thrown. If the length of B is zero, then no bytes are read and zero is returned. Otherwise there is an attempt to read at least one byte, and if no byte is available because the stream is at the end of the file, the value minus one is returned. Otherwise, at least one byte is read and stored in the B, and then the last one is the three parameters. Read method. The type of the first parameter is the byte array. The type of the second and third parameters are integer. The first parameter is the buffer in which the data is read. The second parameter is the start offset in array B at which the data is written, and the third parameter is the maximum number of bytes to read. This method reads up to ten bytes of data from the input stream into an array of byte. An attempt is made to read as many as Len bytes, but a smaller number may be read. The number of bytes actually read is returned as an integer, So this method will also block until input data is available. The end of the file is detected or an exception is thrown. Now if Len is zero, then no bytes are read and zero is returned. Otherwise, there is an attempt to read at least one byte. If no byte is available because the stream is at the end of the file, the value minus one is returned. Otherwise, at least one byte is read and stored into. Be all types of the read method. Throw the Ioexception if an I o error occurs, and for this. When we use this method, we'll use the try and catch block. Very useful that. So why don't we have a look at the second method? The second method is the available method. This method returns an estimate of the number of bytes. It can be read or skipped over from the input stream, without blocking the next invocation of a method for the input stream itself. Now you get a note though, that while some implementations of input stream will return the total number of bytes in the stream. Many won't do that. Also, it's never correct to use the return value of this method to allocate a buffer intended to hold all data in the stream. So another method is the skip method with a parameter type of long. And this method skips over and discards n bytes of data from the input stream. The actual number of bytes skipped is returned, so if n happens to be negative, the skip method always returns zero and then no bytes are skipped. Also, this method throws ioexception if the stream does not support seek, or if some other I o error occurs. So then what's this next method? The mark method. And this method just marks the current position in this input stream. A subsequent call to the reset method repositions the stream at the last marked position so that subsequent reads reread the same bytes. All right, so the read limit argument tells this input stream to allow as many bytes as possible to be read before the mark position gets invalidated. Lots of details in here, huh? So the next method in this class is the mark supported. So this just tests if the input stream supports the mark and reset methods. Returns true if the stream instance supports the mark and reset methods, otherwise it's going to be false. And the next method is the reset method. And it just repositions the stream to the position at the time the mark method was last called on this input stream. The method reset for class input stream does nothing except throw an Ioexception. And the last method is the close method, and this closes the input stream and releases any system resources associated with the stream. Thus, it increases the system's efficiency. And yet again, a closed stream cannot perform input operations and cannot be reopened. So the closed method of input stream does nothing. And for this reason, if you don't use this method, you're not going to get any errors from the perspective of the system's efficiency. So we can use a closed method. And you remember, of course, that we were calling the closed method after using the scanner class, because the system dot n that we give as a parameter to the scanner class is actually part of input stream. Okay. So that's a whole lot of theory. But now you know a bit more about the input stream class. And yeah, hopefully you're still awake anyway. So hey why don't you take a break and we'll start making our sample application when we come back in the next video. All right. I'll see you in the next one.

=== 5. InputStream Class - Part 2 ===
All right, my friends. So in that previous video, we really delved into some of that theory regarding the input stream class, which actually allows us to read data from a source and the methods of this class. And that was that was really useful. But now it's time to really get into some practice using this input stream class. So let's just dig in. First I want to create a new class named input stream example in the Java IO examples package. So why don't we go ahead and make an example as follows. Let's read the Java programming language text in the example dot. TXT file that we created in the previous video, using the input stream and file input stream classes and print that to the console. All right. So that means we'll have to create an instance of the input stream class. Now as you can see here, the input stream class is also abstract. And it's included in the Java.io package. So I want to choose this option and press enter. The name of the reference will be Input stream. So after the equal sign I'll call a constructor of the file input stream class. Now remember since the input stream class is abstract, we cannot use it directly. So we're going to need to do some necessary operations by using its subclass named file input stream class. All right. So that means after the equal sign I'll write new file input stream. And for the constructor parameter we've got to write the name of the file with its extension. So here I'll write example dot txt in double quotes. Now remember, the file that we created in the previous video was example dot txt. Uh, if you want to, you could always create a constant again and call that constant here. Or you could just do what I'm doing because well, I'm showing you right? You're not showing me. But I'm sure by now you would know how to do it. So anyway, let's get to it. The file input stream class also throws a file. Not found exceptions over this. We'll need to create a try catch block. I'll select the surround with try catch option from the Quick Fix dialog. Very convenient. So after that, why don't we use the available method to estimate how many characters are in the file? Int length equals input stream dot available. Now. Also the available method throws at Ioexception. So what do we do? Add another catch block using the Quick Fix dialog. All right, now I'll need to print this length variable on the console. S out double quotes length. Plus length. So after that we can read the data in the file. And to read the data with the read method we'll usually use the while or do while loop. But yeah you know what. Let's go ahead and use the while loop. And also since what we're going to do after this stage will be directly reading the text in the file, we can always print a message to the console indicating that the reading process has started, so the message will be reading data. And to print the characters we read side by side. This will be print instead of print line. Okay, so now we can actually start the reading process. So first I want to use the parameter less read method. You do remember right? If there is no data to be read, the read method returns minus one and we read the data using this information. So let's assign the result of the read method to a variable int each char as decimal. Equals Inputstream dot read. So the method read returns a decimal equivalent of each character reads you follow. So for example, if it reads the capital letter J, it'll return seven four. If it reads the lowercase letter j, it will return 106. You know the reasons I don't need to go back over it. So let's create that while loop. So the condition will be each char as decimal is not equal to minus one. Because if there is no data to read, the read method returns minus one. All right. In other words, the loop will continue as long as that value read is not minus one. So we're going to try to read the text in the file character by character in the loop. So if the file has data to read, I will assign this to a char variable in the loop. Char each character. Equals each char as decimal. So now I want to apply a cast operation here to convert the decimal to character. Okay. So now we've got that first character of the text in the file. That means we can now print this directly to the console Or we can convert the character to a string and print that to the console as a string. Of course, it doesn't actually matter. It's up to you, but I do want to print it as a string, so we'll need to create a string for this. It's always good practice. String each char as string. Equals string. Dot value of. Each character. So now we can write the data on the console. S out each char as string. Also this will be the print method, not the print line. And after that we should read the next data and assign it to the each char as decimal variable. And then if there's no more data to read, the value of this variable will be minus one and the while wild condition will no longer be satisfied. And then the loop will end after all the characters get read. Okay. The loop is ready. So after the loop, I want to print a message to indicate that the process of reading the data has also finished. So first I'll need to create an empty print line method to move the cursor to the next line. And now I'll create the message s out double quotes. And the message should be something like reading completed or whatever you want. And I'll close the input stream. Now, before you go running the project, I just want to open the example dot txt file that we created in the previous video. So here I want to change this text to Java Programming language. Now I want to save it. Okay, so now let's run the code and see what it looks like. And yeah, you can see Java programming language is now on the console. And of course this process happens so fast that we can only see the result. But again if you want to let's wait a little bit after each character gets printed on the console. That way we can more easily observe that the reading process is done byte by byte. So just after the print method in the while loop, I want to call the Thread.sleep method. Now the sleep method of the thread class causes the currently executing thread to sleep for the specified number of milliseconds. So in other words, it temporarily ceases execution. So let's cease the execution for 500 milliseconds. So that's going to be half a second, right? Now, of course, since the sleep method throws the interrupted exception, we're going to need another catch block, aren't we. So I'll choose the add catch clause to surrounding try option from the Quick Fix dialog. All right, let's run the project. And you can see it now. Waits for half a second after printing each character and then writes the other character to the console. Pretty cool, pretty cool. So after all the data has been read, the reading completed message gets printed on the console. Now, I wonder if you've been paying attention if you still have your eyes open. We've also printed the number 25 and that means the total number of bytes. So that is the number of characters in the file. And that's on the console with the available method. You remember that one. All right. So there you go. That's a few different ways to do the read method. Obviously the read method reads byte by byte. But now let's have a look at the other read method which is with a parameter. So for this it's of course going to be enough if we just turn this while loop into a comment line and the other codes can remain the same. And of course I will convert the catch block for the sleep method to the comment line. Okay, now we can continue. So this time let's print only the word programming to the console. So first I want to create a byte array. Byte square brackets. Character array. Equals new byte square brackets. And we'll also need to specify the length of this array, since the length of the programming word is 11. We can give 11 or greater than 11. Or we could just type the estimated number of bytes. So we actually assigned it to the length variable. So I can write the length here. And yeah there's no problem. So now I want to use the skip method of the input stream class to start the reading process. Not from the first character, but from the letter p which is the first letter of the word programming. All right. Input stream dot skip. So as the parameter of the skip method, I can write the index number of the letter p. Since it is five I'll write five. C this way it's not going to read the first five characters, and it'll start reading from the sixth character. And that would be the letter P. So now what I'll do is call the read method of the input stream class and assign it to a new variable int character read. Equals input stream dot read. As the first parameter of the read method, I'll write the name of the byte array character array and the second parameter is the offset. So in other words we've got to specify which index it will start reading from. So after the skip method, since the cursor's now on the letter p, the index number of the letter p is zero, right? So therefore I'll write zero in the second parameter here. Now the third parameter will be the length of the data that will be read. So the length of the word programming is 11. So I'll write 11 here. All right. So now I want to create a new string and convert this byte array to a string in order to print it on the screen. String character string equals new string, and inside the parentheses I'll write the name of the byte array that is character array. Okay, now I can print this string onto the console. S out character string. Also, this will be the print method again to write the character side by side. And okay, here I need to show the user message that the data is being read. Okay, let's go ahead and run it and test it out. See what we get. Well, as you can see, first up the length of the available byte is printed on the console. Then the message data is reading. Then the word programming gets printed. And of course, the completed message. Okay, so now why don't we make sure that each character is written one at a time, again using that sleep method? So to do this I want to use the for loop. This time for int offset equals zero. The condition will be offset less than the length that is the number of bytes in the file. Or for this particular example you can write 11 and offset plus plus. So I will move these two lines into the for loop. And this time the second parameter of the string will be offset if all good. So the third parameter will be one because in each iteration the offset will increase, but we will only read one byte. So for example, in the first iteration the offset is zero and the third parameter is one. So the letter p will then be printed on the console. The second iteration, the new value of the offset will be one, and the third parameter is again one. So this time the letter in the first index will be read. That is, the letter R gets printed to the console, and for the third iteration, the new value of the offset will be two. And the third parameter is again one. So this time the letter in the second index will be read. That is, the letter O gets printed on the console and on and on like that. Okay. Then when the value of the offset is 11, the condition will be false and the loop will terminate. So after that, I'll need to add the Thread.sleep method here to observe the reading process. All right. The parameter can be 500 milliseconds. Again, that looks good. Oh, also, I'll need to activate the catch block for the sleep method. All right. So let's let's see what happens. Run it and test it. And you can see it reads it one bite at a time. Isn't that the way you eat an elephant? I don't know why you'd want to eat an elephant, but in any event, now the reading process is complete. So now you know all about the input stream and the file input stream classes. We even read the data in a file on our device and displayed the data that we read on the console screen. So you're going to be using that a lot going forward. So why don't we take a short break here and we'll meet again in the next video. I'll see you on the other side.

=== 6. Writer Class ===
All right, my friends. Welcome back. So in the previous videos we talked all about the input stream and output stream classes. We learned how to write a console input and read the input that we wrote again and well, display it onto the console. And of course you do remember the output stream and the input stream classes performed writing reading operations in bytes. Now, the reason why I bring that up again is you got to also remember that data transfer has a couple of different pathways in Java, byte based and character based. So we learned the input stream and output stream classes which perform byte based operations. Now we're going to get into the classes that do character based writing and reading operations. So that means in this video we're going to talk all about the writer class. Now, when you're using the writer class, we can actually write data to an external source on a character basis. So the most important contribution of character based data processing is that it makes it possible to work with international characters. See how important that is? Yeah. Now, before Java 1.1, only byte based data transfer was possible. So you might just imagine that, yeah, it wasn't possible to even process all the types of the characters there are. However, after Java 1.1, character based data transfer became possible thanks to these reader and writer classes. So again, this class is going to be abstract and since it is abstract, you cannot use it directly. But we can use this class thanks to the subclasses of this class. And the abstract classes of course, is superclass of all the classes representing an output stream of characters. So we could say that this class moves data in characters. You follow logic. So the writer class, just like the output stream and the input stream classes, actually is offered to us in the Java.io package. Now, of course, the more well-known subclasses of the writer class are here. Buffered writer, output stream writer, char array writer, piped writer. And there's others. But when writing data using the writer class, we can actually use the right method of this class. There are different overloaded versions of this method, so why don't we have a look at a few? The first type of the right method takes a parameter type of int, and this method writes a single character. The character to be written is contained in the 16 low order bits of the given integer value. So the 16 high order bits are ignored. The second type of the right method takes a parameter type of string, and this method of course writes a string. The third type of the right method takes a parameter type of char array. So this method writes an array of characters. The fourth type of the right method takes three parameters. The first parameter is a string. The second parameter is the offset from which to start writing characters, and the third parameter is the number of characters to write. So that sounds good. Now the method actually writes a portion of the string. So the fifth type of the right method is going to take three parameters as well. The first parameter here is the char array. The second parameter is the offset from which to start writing characters. The third parameter is the number of characters to write. And this method writes a portion of an array of characters. Yeah. So that's all the theory you want to handle right now. Now, you know a little bit more about this writer class. Why don't we learn how to use a writer class via a console application? That sounds like fun. So let's do it up. So I want to create a new class named writer example in the Java IO examples package. So you know what? Why don't we do an application like we did in the output stream class. So first let's get a text from the user. And then using the writer class and some of its subclasses, we can write the input that we receive to a file and the file directory on the computer. Okay let's do it. So first off I will take data from the user using the scanner class. Let's just give a message to the user. And let's take the text that the user entered and transfer it to a string. Okay. So now we're receiving the data from the user. We transfer it to a string. What will we do now. Well we'll create a file in the file directory and then print the text that we received from the user into this file using the writer class. So first I will create a reference of the writer class. So you can see here the writer class is abstract and it is included in the Java.io package. Good thing too. So I'm going to choose this option. Press enter and we'll let the name of the references be writer. So after this equal sign, I'll call the constructor of the File Writer class. Now remember, since the writer class is abstract, we cannot use it directly. And for this reason, we'll do the necessary operations by using its subclasses. Ain't no thang. So after the equals sign, I'll just write new file writer. Now, this file writer class takes the name of the file into which we will write data as a parameter. So we'll define the file name as a constant using the final keyword to avoid any misspellings. Public static. Final string. File name. Then after the equal sign, I'll write the file name as a string. Let the name of the file be test and the extension will be txt again. All right. So now I'm going to use this file name as a constructor parameter of the Filewriter class. Now let's have a look at where that Filewriter class is defined. So if I press a control key and click the Filewriter class this is a constructor of the class. So let's have a look at the class itself before we go anywhere else. So you got to notice that this class is not directly inherit from the writer class. You see that right? It inherits from the output stream writer class. So why don't we have a look at the output stream writer class? So here you see the output stream writer class is a direct subclass of the writer class. But have you been paying attention? This class does not have any constructor to create files on the file directory of the device. See, that's why we need to use the Filewriter class, which is a subclass of the Outputstream writer class, in order to create those files on the device. So now we can go back to the File Writer class. But you know what? I need to draw your attention to something in the constructor of the File Writer class. Look here, there's the Fileoutputstream class here. So in order to create a file on the device, even though we call the Filewriter class, the Fileoutputstream class is actually used. It's important information, but don't let it put you off course. Let's go back to where we left off. See? So this class also throws this file not found exception again. And you can still create a try catch block or use the throws keyword. So this time, because you already know how to use a try catch block, let's use the throws keyword. Now we already learned the throw and the throws keywords way back in the exception section. So you remember I'm sure. Okay, now up to this stage we have received input from the user. And we've created a file on the device. So that means it's now time to write the input to the file. So we'll need to use the right method for this. Not the right method. The right method. Well actually the right method is the right method okay. Anyway writers write. And as a parameter let's write the input text. After that I'll show a message. So double quotes and the message will be the text was written to the. After the plus sign, I'll write file name. And lastly, I'll close the stream scanner. Dot close. Writer dot close. Okay. What do you say we run it and see what it looks like? So yeah, I can enter something like this. Text was written using the writer class. So after I press the enter key, the data gets written to the file. Well, we'll check it out. And I'll open up the project folder. And here is the test dot. TXT file. Do I open it. You betcha. And there you can see the text is here. All right so now let's write only the word writer. So to print only the word writer, we're going to need to add the second and third parameters to the writer method. So the second parameter is offset that is the starting index of the expression to be printed. And the third parameter is how many characters will be printed after the starting index. So the first letter of the word writer is w. And then you can find the index number of the letter w just by counting over from the beginning. It's easy to do for now, but it could be a really long text. So in this case, you can just find the index number of the word you're looking for with the index of method of the string class. So yeah let's find it out now. So I'll use the index of method of the string class. So I'll write input text dot index of. As a parameter. I'll write writer. And of course, you remember the index of method returns the index number of the given letter or the first letter of the word. So let's just transfer this to an int variable. Int index of w equals. And of course, if there is no word writer in the entered text and the index of method is going to return a minus one, right. So for this it's also useful to use an if statement here. If the index of w is not equal to minus one. We can perform the writing operation. So I'll copy these codes and paste them into the if block. So now I can write the index of w variable as the second parameter of the right method. The third parameter will be the number of characters of the word writer, and that would be six. You can also create an else section. Um, I'm just going to leave that to you just as a suggestion. Okay. Let's just run it and test it out. So I'll write. This text was written using the writer class. So after pressing the enter key, the data is written to the file. So let's check it out. I'll open up the test dot txt file. And notice that only the word writer is written out this time. So there you go, my friends. That's how you use the writer class. Yeah. So why don't we take a short break here? Let's meet in the next video.

=== 7. Reader Class ===
Well, check it out, my friends. Here we are again. Now, previously we learned all about the writer class, and that actually allows us to write character based data. So that means in this video we're going to figure out how to use the reader class. All right. Anyway, the reader class actually allows us to read data on a character by character basis. And of course, the main difference, again, that distinguishes the reader class from the input stream class is that data is transported as characters, not bytes. And again, the class is abstract. Therefore, when we want to read data using the reader class, we use the subclasses of this class. So the reader class, like other classes, gets defined in the Java.io package. There are some really well-known subclasses of the reader class which would be buffered reader, input, stream reader, line number reader, char ray reader, and there are some others. But now let's have a look at some of the more useful methods that we'll be using in the reader class. So the method of the reader class used to read data is read makes sense. But of course there are different overloaded versions of the read method. The first one is the parameter list read method. And it gets used to read characters from streams. It returns the decimal equivalent of each character it reads. The read method with one parameter reads the characters from the stream and stores them in the specified array. All right. Parameter list one parameter. The read method with three parameters reads the number of characters equal to the length of the stream, and stores it in the specified array starting from the very start. So these methods return minus one if there's no data to read. Now another method would be the skip method, and this method actually discards the specified number of characters from the stream. We've also got another method here. It's the ready method, and this method checks to see if the reader is ready to be read or not. If it is ready, it'll return true. Else it'll return false. Now, apart from these, there are some other different methods. But in general you'll be using these methods and that's enough to do right now. So that's enough theory. Let's do some practice. First I want to create a new class named Reader Example in the Java.io package. So we're going to do an example like this. Okay. Let's read the text in the test.txt file. Then we created in the previous video using the reader and file reader classes and print it to the console. So first I want to create an instance of the reader class. Now you can see the reader class is also abstract. It is included in the Java.io package and that means I'll choose this option. Press enter and the name of the reference will be reader. And after the equal sign, I will call the constructor of the file reader class. Now remember, since the reader class is abstract, we won't be able to use it directly. And for that reason we will do the necessary operations by using its subclasses. So after the equal sign, I'll write new file reader for the constructor parameter. Well, we've got to write the name of the file with its extension. So here I can write test.txt TXT in double quotes. So remember that file that we created in the previous video was test.txt? If you want to, you can create a constant again and call that constant here. But for now let's have a look at where that file reader class is defined. So I'll press a control key. Click the file reader class. And here we are at the constructor of this class. So why don't we have a look at the class itself. First you got to notice that this class is not directly inherit from the reader class. It inherits from the Inputstream reader class. Okay, so why don't we have a look at the Inputstream reader class? And there you see. The Inputstream reader class is a direct subclass of the reader class, but I know you've been paying attention. This class does not have any constructor to create or open an existing file on the file directory of the device. So what do we do? We get to use the file reader class, and that is a subclass of the Inputstream reader class to create or open an existing file on the device. So now we can go back to the file reader class. I'm sure you noticed that there is a file Inputstream class in the constructor of the file reader class. So to create or open an existing file on the device, even though we called the file reader class, the file Inputstream class is used. That's something that you just got to pay attention to. All right. So now we can continue where we left off. Oh, yeah. One more thing. This class throws the file not found exception again. So if you want you can always create a try catch block or use the throws keyword. Because that went so well before I want to use the throws keyword again. And here you can see the throws file not found. Exception gets added right after the main method. All right so we'll come in here. After that we can read the data in the file. To read data with a read method we'll usually use the while or do while loop. Now I wonder if you remember we use the while loop when reading data using the input stream class. So why don't we just try something different and use the do while loop this time? Oh, and also since what we're going to be doing after this stage will be directly reading the text in the file, we can just print a message to the console indicating that the reading process has begun. So let's make the message be reading data. And print the characters we read side by side. This will be print instead of print line. Okay, so now let's try to read the data in order by using the do while loop. But first we got to find out if the file is ready for reading. You follow. It's possible to find that out by using the ready method of the reader class. It'll return true if the file is ready to read false otherwise. So let's just create an if statement here. If reader dot ready. And the ready method also throws the I o exception. So here's where you either create a try catch block or specify it with the word throws. I'm going to use the word throws, and since a file not found exception is a subclass of the I o exception, only the I o exception is written here. Okay. Okay. So we're going to make a few necessary actions here. So I'll create the do block. I'll call the read method of the reader class inside the do block reader dot read, and first I'll use Parameterless read method. Now of course you remember write. The read method will read the data character by character, but then returns the decimal equivalent of the character it reads. So it's also going to return minus one after all the characters have been read. And that means that there's no more data to read. And therefore I will pass this value to an int variable and create an if statement here. So let's now create an int variable named character. Read just above the if statement, and I'll assign the result of the read method to this variable. Now I can create another if statement here and check to see if this value is minus one or not. If the character red is not equal to minus one. In this case, it means that the character has been red and the decimal value of the related characters transferred to the character red variable. So we can now print this character to the console. S out character red. And this will again be the print method, not print line. Okay. So if you leave it like this, you're going to see the decimal value corresponding to that character instead of the character itself on the console screen, right. So what do we do? We need to perform a cast here and print that to the console as a character. So sure enough, after this step the data will be written to the console. So you know what? Why don't we go ahead and put in some sleep time after printing each character to the console. I like it. Thread.sleep. 300 L. The sleep method also throws an interrupted exception, so let's add throws Interruptedexception in for this. Now let's create the while condition, and this loop should continue until all characters in the file have been read. So we can understand this from the minus one value that returns when all the characters are finished being read. Therefore, I'll write the statement in the if condition here as well. So if there's data to be read, the loop will continue. If the data to read runs out, then this condition will be false and the loop will terminate. All right. Okay. So now our loop is ready. But before you go running the app, let's print a message to indicate that the process of reading the data is now finished. And after that, outer if block, I'll create an empty print line method to move the cursor to the next line. And now I'll create the other method. So double quotes reading completed. And last we got to close the stream reader dot close. All right. Now another thing I want to open the test.txt file that we created in the previous video. And I want to change this text. This text was written using the writer class. I'll save this file. Okay. So now we can run the code and test it out. And there you see the data is currently being read character by character and printed to the console as it goes. And when the reading process is complete, we know it. All right. Why don't we try to read this just a certain part of the data in the file. So for example, let's just read the word writer. Right. So for this what will we do. Use the three parameter version of the read method. So I'll need to first duplicate the line where we use the read method once. And we'll turn one of them into a comment line. Oh let's also convert these two lines where we print the data into comment lines. All right we can continue. The first parameter of the read method will be a char array. So let's go ahead and create it just above the outer if statement. Also, we've got to specify the length of this array. The reader class does not have an available method like the Inputstream class, so we won't be able to obtain the possible amount of characters to be read in advance. Let me show you what we do though. I'm going to go ahead and set the size of the array to 100. You can increase this value depending on the length of the text that you have. But now I'll just pass this array as the first parameter of the read method. So now I want to specify the second parameter. And for this I'll use the skip method of the reader class to start the reader process, not from the first character, but from the letter w, which of course is the first letter of the word writer. Now, just above the do block, I'll write reader dot skip. So I have to write the index number of the letter w. Of course, I'm sure you have that very excellent question of how do we specify this value. If the text that we have is large or we don't even have access to the text? Yeah. I mean, that's an excellent question. And in fact, I need to postpone the answer to this question now. In other words, I'll tell you in a second. For now, hang in there. Let's just write the index value of the letter W, which is 32. You can open the test.txt file and calculate the index number to the letter W very usefully. Right. Okay. So this way it's not going to read the first 32 characters. And it's going to start reading from the 33rd character. And that my friends is the letter W. So now I want to specify the second parameter of the read method. The second parameter is the offset. So in other words here's where we got to specify which index it will start reading from after the skip method. Since the cursor is now on the letter w, the index number of the letter w is now zero. You follow. That's why here I'm going to write zero in the second parameter. The third parameter will be the length of the data that will be read. So the length of the word writer is six. So here I'll write six. So that makes our read method ready. I want to show you something else here in the inner if statement. I want to create a new string and convert the char array to the string to print on the screen. So string Char string equals new string. And inside the parentheses I'll write the char array. Now I can print this string on the console. Also this will be the print method again to write the characters side by side. All right let's run all that and test it out. Well there you see it, my friends. Only the word writer gets printed on the console. Now, of course, you could always call the sleep method for a short time after each character gets printed by using that for loop like we did in the input stream class. That way you can more easily see the letters being printed one at a time. Why don't you go back and do that in your own time? I want to take you back to that previous problem. Now, I know you were paying attention, right? So we performed operations in two different places that are kind of difficult to control, and it might not actually yield the kind of results that you're looking for. So the first is specifying the size of the array. The second is when you're using the skip method. Now, because we may not know the text to be printed, or even if we do, it might be really long. In these cases, we might not know the size of the text or the index number or specific expression that we want to print. So let's talk about how we would proceed. Are you with me? Yeah. So let's go ahead and convert this array to a comment line. And this skip method. Also I'm also going to convert this read method to a comment line. And I will activate this read method. And we'll also convert these two lines where we print the data into comment lines. Okay, so all that's done, let's now continue. So what we'll need here is to create an empty string just above the outer. If block string text equals double quotes. Now I will jump to the inner if block. So here is where I will add each character that's read to the text variable using the concat method of the string class. So I can write text equals text dot concat character read. So since this concat method takes a string, first I'll convert this int value to char, then convert the char to string. So I will add the cast expression just before the character read variable. Yeah. Now it's starting to make sense, huh? Next, I'll convert this to string with the value of method of string string.valueof. And I'll write this variable in parentheses. See this way, when the loop ends, the value of the text variable will be whatever the text in the file is. So in this example, after all the characters are read, the text variable will now have the text. This text was written using the writer class. Therefore, we can easily perform the operations after this stage via this string. But first we're going to need to find out the index number of the letter W, which is the first letter of the word writer just outside the outer if block, I'll write int index equals text. Dot index of double quotes writer. So now I can use the substring method of the string class to obtain the word writer s out text dot substring. All right, two parameters in the substring method. The first one will be the index number, the character w. The second parameter will be the last index of the word writer. So I'll write index plus six because the second parameter is exclusive. And that is if the index number of the first letter of the word writer w is 32, the index number of the last letter is 37. However, the second parameter must be one more than the index number, so that would be 38. So that means in this case, if we add the length of the word to the index number of the first letter, we would print the entire word writer. You follow? All right, let's run it and test it and see what it looks like. So there you see, only the word writer gets printed. Cool. So you did notice, though, right this way, we don't need to predict the length of the text in the file or the index number of a particular section that we want to print. Yeah, it's pretty clear now, huh? We perform the necessary reading and transfer the text that we read into a string, and now we perform the operations on this string. Strings are valuable. Yeah. So that's how you use the reader class. It's going to be very useful, especially as you develop your skills. So yeah, you deserve a break. Go ahead, take a break and come back and we'll meet in the next video. See you then.

=== 8. Copying a file with Java IO ===
Well, would you look at you coming back? Great to see you again. So my friends. Hello. And basically up until now, we've been doing the file output stream and the writer classes to write data to a file, the file input stream, and the reader classes to read data from a file. So in this video, it is time to create a copy of a file using the information that we've already learned. So what I'll do is I'm going to use a reader class to read data, the writer class to write data. Can you handle it all right. Now you can also make this operation with the file input stream and fileoutputstream classes. But by the end of this video, you're going to be able to create a copy of a file using Java.io. But don't let us get too far ahead of ourselves. Why don't we start writing out some necessary code? All right, so to begin at the very beginning, I want to show you the file that I will create for this copy method. So the file that I'm going to copy is the Oak Academy dot txt file. And this file is in the input output folder in the documents folder on my computer. So you can create a similar file in any folder on your computer. And this way you'll actually learn how to read data from a file in a different directory, as well as how to write data to a file in a different directory. So assuming you've done that, I'm going to open up this file. Now I've actually included some draft text in this file as an example. You can use a ready made draft text as we did in the previous lessons. Of course you can create your own if you want, but what I want to do now is, well, let's start making a copy of this file. So I'll create a new class named copying a file in the Java I o. Examples package. All right, so since I'll be using the reader and writer classes for the copying process, I want to create an instance of the reader class first. Reader reader equals new file reader. Now in parentheses I've got to write the file name. If the file that I'll be processing was in this project, it would actually be sufficient to write the file name directly with its extension. But this time the file is in a different folder. So that means we therefore have to write the file path here. Now we've got to get the file path of the file that we're going to copy. You can get the file path by right clicking on the file. Click Get Info from the pop up menu. Here you can find the file path in the where section. Let's copy it now and go back to the project again. Let's paste the file path we copied in parenthesis between double quotes. Yes. Finally, we have to write the file name with its extension. But before the file name we should put another file separator. The file separator is slash for Mac. For windows this is the double backslash. Now I will write the file name that is och academy dot txt. Now since a file reader class throws the file not found exception I'll create a try catch block. All right. So now I can create an object from the writer class. In parentheses, I should write the path of the file in which the copy to be created will be saved. And if you want to, we can save it in same directory. Of course you can save it in a different folder if you want to, but I want to specify a new name for the copy of the file. So why don't we get this name from the user? So I'll create a scanner object. Scanner. Scanner equals new scanner system dot n. And I'll just message the user s out. Double quotes. Please enter a file name. Now let's transfer the file name specified by the user to a string. String. New file name equals scanner dot. Next line. Now let's add this file name to the end of the file path. Of course there must be a file separator again. Now we must also specify the extension of this file. And we'll make the extension txt again. Okay. So the compiler is warning us because the file writer throws an exception. That means I'll just choose the add catch clause statement from the Quick Fix dialog. And yeah now we can start the copying process. So first here I will call the ready method of the reader class. In the if condition. If reader dot ready. So if the file is ready to read, I can read it. So now I'll show a message to indicate the copying process has started. So double quotes data is reading. And now I will create a variable of type integer. So int character read. And after that I'll create a do while loop to read the data. And here we'll transfer the integer value returned by the read method of the reader class to the character read variable character read equals reader dot read. All right. So now I want to check if the read operation is finished. And if you remember the read method was returning the minus one value when there was no data to be read. So we can now just create an if statement here. If the character read is not equal to minus one. In this case, we can write the read character to this new file writer dot write. Character read. So as soon as each character gets read, it will be written to the new file. So now let's create the while condition. The condition here will be the same as the condition of the if statement. So this loop will continue until all the data in the source file is read. It's so funny how an English write. It's like read and read is basically the same word, but it's a context that makes it different. Anyway, I digress, don't I? The data read in each loop will be written to the new file. All right. The loop is going to end, of course, when all the data is has been read. Anyway, after the loop, I want to show a message after the loop that indicates the copying process has finished. S out double quotes, the files copied. And sure enough, we can finally close the stream's reader. Dot. Close. Writer. Dot. Close. Scanner dot. Close. And now everything's ready. So why don't we just run it and test it out? Let's name the new file. Copy of the file. Let's press enter. Oops. The app is crashed. We got the file. Not found. Exception. There is actually no error in our code, but the Mac operating system says that we do not have permission to read this directory. Therefore, we need to grant access to this file. Let's perform this operation now. Let's click on the Apple icon in the upper left corner and open system settings. Let's go to the Privacy and Security tab from here. Let's enter the full Disk Access menu from here. We need to add IntelliJ here. From applications. Let's find the Intelligence Community edition. Yes of course this operation requires us to close and restart IntelliJ. Let's close and restart it. Yes, let's check now. As you can see, we have given full disk access to IntelliJ. Similarly, let's check the Files and folders menu. As you can see it has been added here automatically. Now let's go back to our project and run our code once again. Let's name the new file copy of the file. Let's press enter. And as you can see we did not get an error this time. So after pressing the enter key the message that reading has begun and copying ends appears on the console. Now obviously here the copying process gets completed very quickly. So why don't we just check the folder where the file is located. And yeah, you can see the new file has been created successfully. Now if we look the contents of the old and the new files, we can also see that they have both got the same content. So yeah, now you know how to make a copy of a file using the reader and writer classes together. You can also do this in the file output stream and file input stream classes. But it's the logic of making copies that I wanted to make sure it was understood. So why don't we do a short break here and we'll come back and meet in the next video?

=== 9. Object Serialization and Deserialization ===
Well. Hello there my friends. Welcome back. So check it out. Here's the video that we're going to talk about serialization and deserialization in Java. So serialization and deserialization these are actually fundamental concepts in Java programming essential for data persistence network communication as well as object storage. Right. So it's these processes that enable the conversion of Java objects into a byte stream for storage or transmission, and then the recreation of those objects from the byte stream. Okay. So let's get to know these concepts a little bit better. Serialization in Java just refers to the process of converting an object into a byte stream. But you see, it allows it to be stored in a file or even transmitted over a network. So this byte stream can then be saved to a disk sent across a network or stored in a database. So you see that serialization is crucial for preserving the state of an object so that it can be reconstructed later. I'm sure you remember the beginning of the course. We said that Java is a platform independent language. That means an object stored with serialization can be used in its original form on a different platform with Deserialization, right? Because byte streams are platform independent. So in order to serialize an object in Java, the class must implement the serializable interface in the Java.io package. This interface acts as a marker indicating that the objects of this class can be serialized. I wonder if you remember we talked about the marker interface in the Lambda expression section. So you'll understand that these interfaces do not have any function. They're only used to mark the class to which they are applied on a particular subject. Therefore, it's actually sufficient for a class that we want to serialize to implement the serializable interface. All right. So Java actually provides a built in mechanism for serialization through the Objectoutputstream class. And this writes primitive data types and graphs of Java objects to an output stream. So far so good. Well let's have a look at Deserialization because it's the reverse process actually of serialization where the byte stream is converted back into an object. So it's used to reconstruct the original object from the serialized form. Now in Java, Deserialization is performed by using the object input stream class, which reads data from an input stream and then reconstructs the original object. So to deserialize an object in Java, the class must have a public no argument constructor. Oh, by the way, during Deserialization, the constructor of the serialized object is not called. Now also, if a class you are serializing is a subclass of a serialized class, you don't need to serialize it again. I mean, subclasses of serialized class are automatically serialized as well. However, the opposite is not valid, so serializing a subclass does not serialize the superclass of that class. All right. So hopefully that's logical. That's all about serialization and deserialization theory. Let's get to the practice. So I'll need to create a new package and class in the Java Input Output project. And we'll let the package name be serialization deserialization. And the class name will be person. Okay. So we're going to have some fields in this class. And then we'll serialize this class using the Objectoutputstream class. And then later on we'll deserialize the object that we serialized using the Object Input stream class and then recover the fields of this class. So let's get started. So this person class has to implement the serializable interface to serialization. After the implements keyword I'll write this serializable interface. Now let's have a look inside the serializable interface. So you can see here there's no method or field because this interface is a marker interface right. So it only declares the classes that implement it as serializable. All right moving on. So I want to create some fields in the person class. String name. Surname. And age. Boolean. Married. And also we create a constructor. All right. So our constructor is now ready. Also, why don't we override the toString method of this class to print the elements on the console easily. All right. So now I want to change the return part. I'll customize it and I'll return the fields of this class. So in double quotes name plus this dot name. After the plus sign double quotes again surname plus this dot surname. After the plus sign again double quotes age plus this dot age. And lastly double quotes married plus this dot married. Also we can put in a backslash n before the surname age and married to print them on the next line. So that makes the person class ready. Now we can also write this class as an object into a file. So for this I'll create a test class in the serialization Deserialization package. The class name can be test serialization. All right. So here I'll need to create an ArrayList type of the person class. And I will add some persons into this ArrayList. And let's add some persons to this ArrayList person list dot. Add new person. And the name of the first person can be Benjamin. Surname can be Smith. Age can be 20. And this married property. Let's make it false. So I'm going to copy this line and paste it below three times. And the second person let's make that Emily Johnson. Age can be 21. And we're going to make this person also be single. And the third person will be Alexander Williams. And their age can be 22. And this person yeah let's make them married. And last person will be William Taylor. And the age can be 23. And yeah, we'll make this person married again. And now let's just write this array into a file as an object using the Fileoutputstream and Objectoutputstream classes. So the Fileoutputstream. The Fileoutputstream class is a subclass of the Outputstream class. So we'll let the name of the object be file out. File out equals new Fileoutputstream. So here we'll specify a name for the file. Let's make it persons dot txt. Now I do need to point out that the file extension is usually specified as a different extension in different serialization realization processes. But see, this is to prevent this file from being opened and its contents changed. So here you can write Dat or ACR or something else as an extension, or you can just make it txt again. All right we'll continue. Oh also to prevent errors I will use the throws declaration after the main method. And instead of the throws declaration you can use the try and catch block as well. No problem with that. Your choice. Okay. So in any event I will now create an object from the Objectoutputstream class Objectoutputstream. Out equals new Objectoutputstream. For the constructor parameter, I'm going to write the object of the Fileoutputstream class in parentheses and that is the file out. So now we can write the person list array as the object into the person dot txt file. So to do this we can use the write object method of the Objectoutputstream class. Out dot write object person list. So after writing I'll close the streams out dot close. File out dot close. Also, we could show a message to understand if the serialization process is complete. S out double quotes object has been serialized. All right. So the serialization process is now complete. Why don't we run it and have a look. All right, So there you see the person's get written into the file. And you also see that the serialization process is completed. So it's actually no different from normal data writing. Right. The only difference is that you can implement the serializable interface into the class you want to serialize. So why don't we have a look at that person's dot txt file. So I'll open up the project directory. And here is the person's txt file. Let's go ahead and open it. Now if you've been paying attention you'll see it is as if the object was coded and written to this file. This is actually the main purpose of serialization, right? Using objects on different platforms without any distortion. So yeah, that's the serialization process and it is now finished. But why don't we go ahead and read the data in the file properly, and then write it to the console with our deserialization process? So for that, let's create a new test class for the Deserialization in the serialization Deserialization package. And the class name can just be test Deserialization. Here we will use the file input stream and object input stream classes for the Deserialization process. Let's go ahead and create an object of the file input stream class. First file input stream file in. Equals new file input stream. Now in parentheses, I'm going to write the name of the file that we created persons dot txt. Also, I'll use the throws declaration again. So after the main method I'll write throws ioexception and after that I'll create an object from the object Inputstream class. For the constructor parameter, I'll write the file in in parentheses. So now I want to read the file using the read object method of the object Inputstream class. So this read object method returns the data written in the file to us as an object. So therefore we can pass this to an object. And that's why I'll write object person object at the beginning of this line. Also, the read object method may throw the class not found exception. So for that reason I'll add another throws declaration for the class not found exception. Okay, so now we can write this object on the console. That's out person object. And lastly why don't we close the streams enclose file enclose. Yeah. Let's go ahead and run it and see what happens. Well there you go my friends. We have now successfully read the data. And of course, I'm sure you noticed there are square brackets that indicate this is an array. Since we transfer the data into an array list and save it that way. So every single person object we add appears to be an element of this array. Now, what do you say we print them in a more readable way for humans with the for each loop? I'll just convert this line into comment line and let's create a for each loop for person. Each person. Colon. Person. Object. But the type of the person object is an object, right? Not an array list. So to convert it I will cast it to the array list. Okay, so in the loop I will print each element using the two string method of the person class S out each person dot toString. And then to separate each element from each other. I will use one more print line method again. All right. So let's go ahead and rerun it. And there you see this time we have printed it to the console. And it's a lot easier for humans to understand. But that's a proper way to do it anyway. So there you go. We serialized a class. We wrote it to a file. Then we read that file with the deserialization process. We printed the data to the console in its original form. Now you know how serialization and deserialization work. It's a good thing. Now, there is a keyword that we use in the serialization process. Transient. So when we come back, we're going to take a short break here. In the next video, we're going to learn all about why and how to use the transient keyword. All right. See you in the next video.

=== 10. transient keyword ===
Hello my friends. Welcome back. Now in the previous video we learned all about serialization and deserialization. So that means this video is going to be dedicated to the keyword transient. Now we can talk about a couple of different purposes of why you would use the transient keyword. First, while we might not want some objects in the class that we want to serialize to be serialized, so let's say, for example, we'll take the person class that we serialized in the previous video. Let's consider an object in this class where we keep the ID number of each user. And let's assume that you don't want this object to be serialized. So in that case, if we mark the object whose ID number we have stored with the transient keyword, the value of this object will no longer be serialized and its default value will appear regardless of the type of the object when it's read. So continuing with that example, if we were to apply the word transient to a variable of serializable int data type, the value of this variable is recorded as zero. Because the default value of the int data type is zero. So to just make a summary of all that, the keyword transient ensures that certain fields are ignored during serialization. And that way it prevents certain data from being serialized for security or performance reasons. We'll get into that a little bit later. But there's another or secondary purpose of its use. So you already know, right? The classes that we want to serialize must definitely implement the serializable interface. But guess what? Unfortunately, not every object in a class that we want to serialize can be serialized. So, for example, if we were to create an object of a class, it does not implement the serializable interface in a class that implements the serializable class. That object still ain't going to be serialized. So in that case, the not serializable exception gets thrown. Now, yeah, when we're faced with that situation, we can actually solve it by using the transient keyword. So sure enough, that's the theory. That's how it works. Why don't we do it in practice and you'll see why it's necessary. So we're going to continue on our previous project. We'll first make an example for the first scenario. So let's open up the person class. So I want to create a new field in this class long person ID. Now let's call this field in the constructor. Long person id. This dot person id equals person id. Also, to show this data on the console, I will call it in the toString method. After the married property, I write plus double quotes person id. Plus this dot person id. So here you can see the test class gives an error. And that's because we added a new constructor parameter. So we can fix that pretty easily. Let the ID of the first person be one. Let the second one be two. This will be three. This will would be four. Okay. So we'll run the application. All right. So the serialization is okay. Let's go ahead and run the other test class for Deserialization. All right. So you can see all the data is on the console screen. So what should I do if I don't want person ID numbers to be visible. Yeah. We can go ahead and use that transient keyword. That'll help us out. So now let's go ahead and apply the transient keyword to that person ID field. So if I write transient before the data type. And now you'll see during serialization the person ID field will be ignored. And its value will be written to the console as zero because the default value of the long is zero. So we're going to test it out one more time. So I'll do the serialization process again. So the serialization works and now you see how the transient keyword works. So we can move on to Deserialization. All right. So you can see here the person's ID numbers are now zero meaning their original values are preserved. So to summarize that if you don't want your password, your ID number or some temporary fields to be serialized, it's actually sufficient to apply the transient keyword to these fields. So that's the primary purpose of the transient keyword, right. So the second intended use well let's just create a new class named weights in the serialization Deserialization package. Okay. so in this class I'll create a weight variable with a double type double weight. Also I'll create the constructor of this class. Public weights. Double weight. And in the constructor I'll write this dot weight. Weight. Now I'll create an object from this class in the person class. So I'll open up the person class. And I'll write weight. Weight. Also I'll add one more constructor parameter. Double weight. Now in the constructor I will assign this to the weight object of the weights class. This dot weight equals new weights. And as a constructor parameter, I'll right weight. Okay. Now I'll create a new field of this person class to get this weight and show it with the other properties. Double person weight. And now in the constructor I will assign the value of the weight variable of the weight class to the person. Weight person weight equals this dot weight dot weight. Also, to show this data on the console I'll call it in the toString method. So after the person id property, I'll write plus double quotes weight plus this dot person weight. I'll also put a backslash n right before the person ID and wait. Now, in the test serialization class, we'll need to assign the value of the wait parameter, and we'll let the weight of the first person be 70.5, and the weight of the second person will be 59.3. The weight of the third person will be 80.1 and the weight of last person 75.6. Okay, now let's go ahead and run the app. So yeah we get an exception. And this is the not serializable exception that I was telling you about. Although the person class implements a serializable interface, the wait object is the object of the weights class which does not implement the serializable interface. Therefore, while the objects of the person class are serialized during the serialization phase, the objects of the weight class cannot be serialized, and then in this case, a not serializable exception gets thrown. Boom! So just like that, I think you now understand that non serializability case. So the question remains how do you overcome this here. So again yes it will be sufficient to use the transient keyword for this. And I'll actually use the keyword transient just before the weight object and the person class. And rerun it. All right. So there you see we don't encounter any errors this time. Now let's run the Deserialization test class and observe the data in the console. And you can now see that there's weight data for each person. It's also printed to the console this time. So there you go, my friends. That's the magic usage of the transient keyword. But I want to summarize all of that. So the first purpose is this if there are fields you don't want to have serialized in a class that you want to serialize, simply mark them with the keyword transient. So in this case, the default values of the type the fields have are saved. But another intended use is that if one or more of the fields in the class you want to serialize belong to a non serialized class, then you must implement the transient keyword for these fields. Otherwise you will face that not serializable exception. So that's that my friends. I think you get it here. So yeah. Let's take another short break and I'll see you in the next video.
