=== 1. Concurrency Design Patterns ===
All right, my friends. Welcome back. So in this video we're going to talk about the concurrency design patterns. So concurrency design patterns provide solutions to common problems that arise in multithreaded programming. So these patterns aim to enhance the efficiency, the safety and the scalability of concurrent systems by standardizing the way threads interact and manage shared resources. So we'll be discussing three essential concurrency design patterns thread per message pattern, the worker thread pattern, and producer consumer pattern. So each of these patterns addresses specific scenarios and thread management and inter-thread communication. So we'll get started with the thread per message design pattern. So in this pattern a new thread gets created for every request or task. It's very simple to implement and very useful for tasks that are lightweight and independent. This pattern simplifies task handling by associating one thread with one request, and it's suitable for short lived and frequent tasks. But this pattern may have some disadvantages. For example, it might just cause performance issues under heavy loads due to the overhead of thread creation and destruction. It's also resource intensive because each thread consumes memory. All right, let's have a look at the worker thread design pattern. So in this pattern a fixed number of threads that is a thread pool is created and tasks are assigned to these threads. The tasks are queued and the threads process them sequentially. Certain advantages of this pattern. Yeah. Efficient use of resources because threads are reused. Eliminates the overhead of frequent thread creation and destruction. Very useful for scenarios with high task volumes. But we could also say that tasks may have to wait in the queue if all threads are busy. Also, implementing task prioritization or fairness may add unnecessary complexity. So then let's now talk about the producer consumer design pattern. We were using that earlier. If you remember this pattern involves two main entities. The producer adds tasks or data to a shared buffer. The consumer processes tasks or data from the buffer. A blocking queue or similar structure is typically used for synchronization. Now this pattern decouples task creation from task processing. It also allows multiple producers and consumers to work concurrently. However, it requires careful synchronization to avoid deadlocks or data corruption. Its performance may depend on the size of the buffer as well as the relative speeds of the producers and consumers. All right, now that we know all of that, let's get some practice. So first let's implement the producer consumer pattern using Java's blocking queue. So here's how we'll make our example. A producer will generate random numbers and place them in a queue. A consumer will take numbers from the queue and print them. We'll also be using a blocking queue to handle synchronization between the producer and the consumer. Now let's make it happen. I need to create a new Java project. Let its name be Advanced Thread topics. So now I'll create a new package in this project. At the name of this package be Concurrency Design Patterns. And now I'll create a new Java class in this package. So this class will be a producer class. And we'll make the name of this class be producer. This class will generate random numbers and add them to the queue. Okay. First though, we'll implement the runnable class. and we'll need to override the run method. Now, before we go, writing the necessary codes for the run method lets us create an instance of the blocking queue. Now initialize this instance in the constructor. Now let's jump to the run method. The task of this class is to generate ten random numbers and add it to the queue. Right. So I need to create a for loop here. To generate random numbers we can use the random class or math class. We'll use the math class though for this particular example. Random method of the math class just generates random double numbers from 0.0 to 1.0. Now let's get this numbers as int and assign them to a new variable. Also, I'll multiply each number with 100 to get my two digit numbers. Okay. Now let's print this to the console. All right. Now let's add this value to the queue using the put method. And after each production I'll define a delay of a half a second. Who said that. Yeah. No, no you're right. We'll need to add a throws declaration or surround these codes with try catch. All right. So now our producer class is ready. Now let's create the consumer class. The consumer class will take numbers from the queue and process them. So first we'll implement the runnable class and I will override the run method. And again we'll be using the blocking queue to take numbers from the queue. So I'll create an instance of it. And I will initialize this instance in the constructor. Now we can write the necessary codes in the run method. So we're going to create a loop here to get the values in the queue. But in a real application you're not going to really know how much data is in the queue are you. So that's why I'll create an infinite loop here with while. So now we'll be getting the data from the queue with the take method and transfer it to a variable. Now of course, we will also need to find out when the queue is finished. Now you can do this in a couple of different ways actually. For example, in the producer class, after the loop is complete, you can add a minus one to the queue and check that value here. If the value you get from the queue is minus one, it just means that the end of the queue has been reached and you can terminate the loop. There is another method though, if there is no more value to be taken from the queue. The null value is transferred to this variable, and then you'll need to do a null check here. If the value you get from the queue is null, it just means that the end of the queue has been reached and you can terminate the loop. So let's just go ahead and try the first way and see what you think. Let's add the minus one to the end of the queue and the producer class. And let's check this in the consumer class. If the value is minus one. Let's terminate the loop with the break keyword. Let's print the value to the console after the check. And again we can define a small delay. Okay. So our consumer class is also complete. Now let's create the main test class. And we'll let the name of this class be producer consumer pattern example. I'll also add the main method. And here I will create an instance of the blocking queue Q interface. Its type will be integer, and we'll just name this instance q. So after the equals sign, I will call the constructor of the array blocking q class. And let's make its capacity five. Okay. So after that I'll create two threads, one for the producer and the other one for the consumer. Okay. Good good. So now I'll start these threads. And lastly I will call the join method for these threads. All right, my friends, so the pattern is ready. Let's go ahead and run the code. And we can observe the output. So the output demonstrates the producer consumer pattern where one or more producer threads generate data and one or more consumer threads process it. The communication between the producers and the consumers occurs through a shared resource. For this example, it's a queue to synchronize their activities and prevent conflicts. All right. Now, for example, let's look a bit closer at this line. Produced 65 defines a producer thread, has generated the number 65 and added it to the queue. All right. Consumed 65. This defines a consumer thread is retrieved and processed the number 65 from the shared resource. That is queue items are produced and consumed in a controlled manner. But the exact timing of these operations, of course, depends on thread scheduling. For instance, sometimes a producer generates multiple items before a consumer starts consuming them. All right. So there's your example usage of the producer consumer pattern. Let's go ahead and make another example. Now about the thread per message pattern okay. Now in the thread per message pattern a separate thread is created for each incoming request or task. This is ideal for lightweight, independent tasks, so we need to simulate a print request handler where each print request is processed by a separate thread. So we'll first create a class that provides a runnable implementation for each message processing task. We'll call this class print Request handler. Now this class will implement the runnable class. Now let's override the run method. And before writing the necessary code for the run method, let's create a message variable of the type string. Now this variable will hold the message to be processed. Right now let's initialize this variable in the constructor. All right. We can move on to the run method. So the run method contains the business logic of the task. So in other words we'll indicate here that we have processed and completed the message. Therefore we must first create an output indicating the thread name and that the message is being processed. And now let's just add a one second delay to simulate the processing time. And finally, we can create an output indicating that the message processing process is complete. Yeah. Okay. So now let's create the test class. Let's call the class thread per message pattern example. Well next create an array containing the messages to be processed. Five elements should be good enough for this. Yeah. Now we'll create a thread for each message to be processed, and I'll just use an enhanced for loop for this. All right let's create the thread in the for loop. And start the thread. All right, my friends, now we can run the code and have a look at the output. So I wonder if you notice a separate thread is created for each message. Well, yeah. Duh. Right? But see how they're processed in parallel? This simple structure is suitable for light workloads. That's what I'm talking about. But we can create some problems in resource management if we're doing this in heavy workloads. Okay. So finally why don't we do an example using the worker thread pattern. Then we can wrap this video up. Those of you who are looking at your watches don't do that. So in the worker thread pattern a fixed number of threads a thread pool processes multiple tasks. Tasks are queued and workers handle them one by one. So we're going to simulate a task processor where multiple tasks are processed by a pool of worker threads. Let's make that happen. So first we'll create a class to represent individual tasks. And we'll call this class task. Why not? Now this class represents the work to be done by worker threads. This class will implement the runnable interface. Now I'll override the run method. Now, before we write necessary code for the run method, I will need to define a task id field so that we can store the tasks name. I'll also initialize it in the constructor. Okay. Now we can jump to the run method. So in the run method, let's first add an output to indicate which task is being processed and by which thread. So after that I will simulate processing by adding a delay. Yeah. Let's do a one second sleep. And lastly, why don't we add an output to indicate which task is completed and by which thread? All right. So that's just our task class. We'll need to create a pool of threads that will continuously pick up and execute tasks. Right. So I'll create a worker class to represent the worker threads. This class will be responsible for running the tasks assigned to it. Now I'll extend this class to the thread class. Inside the worker class, we can define a shared task queue to hold tasks that workers will process. We can use a blocking queue for thread safe task management. Its type will be runnable. I will initiate this in the constructor. And now I'll override the run method. In the run method of the worker. We'll define the logic for continuously picking tasks from a queue and executing them. First, I'll use an infinite loop to keep the thread alive Inside the loop. Retrieve a task from the queue using the take method. This will block the thread until a task is available. After retrieving the task, I'll execute it by calling the run method, and in the catch block, I will terminate the loop using the break keyword. All right, so now we've got the worker class ready. Let's create a test class worker thread pattern example and we'll be able to demonstrate this pattern. Okay. So let's just add the main method and the main method. I will create a blocking queue to hold the tasks. After the equal sign, I will call the constructor of the linked blocking queue class. So after that I will create a fixed number of worker threads. But first I'll create an int value to specify the size of the thread pool. That is how many worker threads will process tasks concurrently. Let's just make this size three. All right. So now I want to create an array of worker objects. With this array, I will manage and control the pool of worker threads. Now I will start each thread by assigning it the task queue. And then after that I'll add the tasks to the queue. Now let's just talk about this code a little bit. Task objects, each implementing runnable, are created with identifiers, namely the variable I, and these tasks are added to the task queue. Workers receive these tasks and process them in the order they were added. All right, now let's define some delay for the tasks to be completed. After processing all the tasks, I will stop the workers. I'll interrupt the worker threads using the interrupt method. Okay. The worker threads are in an infinite loop. A while loop interrupting them just signals that they should stop monitoring the queue and exit gracefully. All right, let's go ahead and run the code and we can now observe the output. So a typical output for this program might just look like this. The order of task processing may vary though due to thread scheduling right. So each worker thread that is thread zero, thread one and thread two starts picking tasks from the shared task queue. The output shows which worker starts processing which task. For example, thread zero started processing task one. Multiple tasks are being processed simultaneously because there are multiple threads. Thread zero. Thread one and thread two. For example, while thread zero processes task one, thread one and thread 2nd May simultaneously handle task two and task three. All right. But each worker prints when it completes a task. For example, thread zero completed task one. The tasks are processed in the order they were added to the queue. First in, first out right? Fifo but completion times depend on thread scheduling births. So when a worker finishes processing a task, it picks the next task in the queue. For example, after thread two finishes task three, it moves on to task five while the other workers continue processing their tasks. The threads remain busy as long as there are tasks in the queue. That makes sense, right? It ensures efficient use of resources. Then of course, after processing all the tasks, the program waits and then interrupts the workers. since all tasks are processed before interruption. No unfinished tasks are present in the output. All right, so that's how the worker thread pattern works. So now, my friends, before I let you go, I just want to summarize what we've been up to here. Thread per message pattern is really good for lightweight tasks, but of course it's inefficient for heavy loads. The worker thread pattern optimizes resource usage by reusing threads. Producer consumer is the pattern that manages task creation and processing, all with synchronized communication. Now, by combining these patterns, we can actually design scalable, efficient concurrent systems. But we won't do that just yet. All right, my friends, why don't we take a short break here and I'll see you in the next video.

=== 2. Handling exceptions in threads ===
And we're back. Well. Hello, friends. Welcome. Now it's time in this video to talk about handling exceptions and thread operations. All right. So in multithread applications exception handling plays a really critical role in ensuring system reliability. Threads operate independently. So any unhandled exception in a thread will terminate that thread without notifying the main thread. What's that going to lead to? Well, incomplete processing, resource leaks or even inconsistent system states. So that's why we're going to explore why exception handling is crucial in threads. Some key approaches to handling exceptions and threads, including handling within runnable and callable wink's as good as nudge using uncaught exception handler. Interface of the thread class for centralized handling workhorse and will also do some examples of these techniques and you'll get to practice. All right so let's get started with why exception handling and threads matters. Now of course might just be better if we just discuss the handling of exceptions and threads under a few different headings. Thread independence. Yeah, I'm sure you already know each thread runs in its own execution context, so if a thread throws an exception and it is not caught, the thread will terminate prematurely, potentially leaving critical tasks incomplete. No automatic propagation. See, unlike exceptions in the main thread, exceptions and worker threads do not propagate to the parent thread. This makes it harder to detect and respond to failures. System stability. Unhandled exceptions can lead to resource leaks. For example, open files, unclosed database connections, you get it, or even corrupt shared data structures impacting the application's overall reliability. So to address these issues and more, we can handle exceptions either at the task level using runnable or callable, or by centralizing exception handling with a thread dot uncaught exception handler. Now you know what we're talking about. Let's get some practice in. All right. So we'll create some practical examples for these scenarios. Handling exceptions directly in a runnable using uncaught exception handler interface of the thread class for centralized exception handling and handling exceptions in a callable task submitted to an executor service. We'll get started in runnable, so we'll simulate a Task where a thread might encounter an error, for example, a runtime exception during data processing. So the exception will be caught and handled directly within runnable. Now let's just make this happen by first creating a new package in this project. And the package name will be exception handling and threads. Now I'll create a new Java class in this project. Name of this class will be runnable exception example. So I want to add the main method. Next I'll create a runnable instance. Its name will be task. So after the equals sign, I'll call the run method using the lambda expression. So here first I'll print the thread name to indicate the task is started. After that, how about we add a condition using the random method of the math class to simulate a situation where an exception might occur. So I'll first pass the randomly generated number to a variable. And here we'll print this number to the console with the current thread. Right now. After that, I want to check this number with an if statement. So the conditional go like this. If the randomly generated number is greater than 0.5, I will throw new runtimeexception with the message simulated error. Okay. Now, if no exception occurs, I do want to print a message indicating the task is completed successfully. Oh, also, before completing the message, let's add a one second delay. Okay. And here I will use a try catch block to handle the exception. Logging the error message. All right. Now we're going to move these codes into an infinite loop, because randomly generated number may be less than 0.5 at first, and we may not be able to observe the error message. So for this reason, instead of running the program over and over and over again, it's going to be more logical to continue the process until the condition is met. You dig? So therefore, it'd be logical to move these codes into an infinite while loop. And I want to terminate the loop in the catch block. Okay. Now I will create two threads using this runnable instance. Let their names be. Thread one. Thread two. Okay. And why don't we start both threads? And let's run the code. We can observe the output now. And I'll tell you what you're looking at. A task is started for each thread in a random numbers generated. If this number is less than 0.5, the task for that thread is completed in one second and the task is started again. And these processes continue concurrently for both threads. Okay. So when the generated number is greater than 0.5. An exception is thrown for that thread in the loop is terminated. However, of course, if a value is generated for the other thread that is not yet meet the condition, the loop continues until the condition is met for that thread. Okay, so that's how you handle exceptions with runnable. Why don't we now handle the exception with another method, namely thread dot uncaught exception handler. Just create a new Java class. Well name this class uncaught exception handler example. I want to add the main method. Here I'll define a centralized uncaught exception handler. Now the uncaught exception handler is a functional interface defined in the thread class and not the name of this instance be handler. All right. So you can see this interface has a method named uncaught exception takes two parameters thread and throwable. This method invokes when the given thread terminates due to the given uncaught exception. So any exception thrown by this method will be ignored by the Java Virtual Machine. In fact, why don't we change this anonymous class to a lambda expression? All right. So now we will log the thread name and the exception message whenever an uncaught exception occurs. Next I'll create a runnable instance really similar to the first example. So in fact let's just copy the runnable codes from the previous example. Okay. Now I want to create two threads using this runnable instance. And I will assign the handler instance to both threads using the set uncaught exception handler method. And finally we'll start both threads. All right, let's run the code and observe the output. Now, do you notice we got an output like in the previous example? But actually what we did is kind of similar. Only this time we handle the exceptions using the uncaught exception handler interface. Right. So that's why you might be thinking wait, did we just duplicate what we did before? Anyway, finally, we can handle exceptions in callable tasks submitted to an executor service. So for that I will create a new Java class name. This class will be callable exception example. I will add the main method. And first I'll create a single threaded executor service. All right. So next I can define a callable task. So its type will be string. A call method will simulate some processing work. If you want to let's just use the same condition with as we did with those examples before. So I'll just copy that necessary code and paste it on in here. All right. Now let's edit these codes. And the message is just a little bit. All right. Then I'll need to submit the callable task to the executor service and store the returned future. Good. Now, using the get method of the future interface, I'll retrieve the tasks result if successful. And I will catch and log exceptions using execution exception if the task fails. And finally I will shut down the executor service. All right, my friends. So we wrote the necessary codes for exception catching with callable. Yeah, but let's put this code in a loop again. And we'll let the loop continue until the condition is met. That is particularly until the randomly generated number is greater than 0.5. So if the condition is met let's end the loop okay. So now we can run the code and test it and observe the output. Now you notice we have obtained an output very similar to the previous exception catching examples. but you got to make a note here that the threads are used from the pool. Okay, so this time we were able to handle exceptions using callable future and executor service. So that's pretty good huh? This is how exceptions are handled in threads. But let's just review a little bit what we did. Runnable exception handling uses a trycatch for lightweight tasks. Uncaught exception handler centralizes exception reporting for better monitoring. Callable and future handle exceptions during result retrieval for tasks requiring return values. Pretty good. So obviously each approach has its own use case depending on the application requirements. But now you know how to do it. We'll take a short break here. I'll see you next time.

=== 3. Advanced locking mechanisms ===
Okay, my friends. Hello and welcome back. So we need to talk about the advanced locking mechanism. I wonder if you remember we talked about the locking mechanism and advanced synchronization in previous sections. So in this video we're going to try to knock out this topic in a bit more detail okay. In multithreaded programming efficient thread synchronization is absolutely crucial to ensure data consistency and performance. I mean, seriously, it's mission critical. Now, while traditional synchronization mechanisms such as synchronized blocks and methods are simple and effective, they can sometimes be too restrictive, leading to thread contention and reduce performance. So advanced locking mechanisms in Java provide greater flexibility and The control over thread synchronization. That's why we're going to examine advanced locking mechanisms through three different locking mechanisms. These are reentrant lock read write lock and stamped lock. We're going to get started with reentrant lock. Now the reentrant lock is part of the Java.util.concurrent locks package. Unlike synchronized it allows explicit locking and unlocking. It actually supports some features like fairness, which ensures that locks are granted to threads in the order that they request them. Interruptibility allows threads to be interrupted while waiting for a lock. Trylock attempts to acquire a lock only if it's available. So now let's have a look at the read write Right lock. This allows multiple threads to read a resource simultaneously. A shared lock it actually ensures that only one thread can write to the resource. Exclusive lock and it improves performance in scenarios where reads are more frequent than writes. Now we've already mentioned reentrant lock and read write lock, so let's now talk about a locking mechanism that we actually haven't brought up before stamped lock. So the stamped lock is a versatile and high performance locking mechanism introduced in Java eight. It actually combines features of read write lock with advanced optimizations to handle scenarios where reads significantly outnumber writes. So let's talk about some of these key features of the stamped lock. Stamped base locking. So instead of a simple lock and lock mechanism. Stamped lock returns a stamp. It is a long token that represents. Ownership of the lock so the stamp is required to unlock or validate. Operations. So we're talking about three different types of locks. Write lock read lock and optimistic read. So write lock. Yeah. It's acquired exclusively by one thread. Similar to a standard lock. Ensures no other thread can read or write while the lock is held. The read lock allows multiple threads to read simultaneously, and of course it blocks if a write lock is held. Now optimistic read. We're talking about a non-blocking read that does not prevent writers. It's suitable for quick, low risk read. Operations must validate the stamp, though, to ensure data consistency. So this is actually the most unique feature of stamped lock. This feature allows a thread to read shared data without acquiring a traditional lock. Now, if a write operation occurs during the optimistic read, the read must be validated using the validate method to ensure consistency. Let's have a look at manual unlocking. Because stamped lock does not implement the lock interface so it doesn't support try with resources. The user must explicitly unlock the lock using the stamp. All right, so now that we've got a few of those fundamentals out of the way, let's talk about how stamp lock works. So the stamped lock keeps track of an internal stamp counter. When a lock is acquired read write or optimistic read the stamp counter increases, right? But check it out. Right. Operations increment the counter significantly, invalidating all optimistic reads. So this mechanism ensures that optimistic readers can detect any concurrent writes. Now, what do you suppose the advantages of a stamp block are? Improve performance. First of all, see optimistic reading reduces contention, especially in read heavy scenarios. Threads don't need to block each other unless absolutely necessary. Births. We also have fine grained control, so the stamp based approach allows for greater flexibility in managing lock states. High throughput ideal for systems with a high volume of reads and infrequent write. But of course, there may be some limitations using stamp lock. Okay, so you got to manage it manually. Okay. So it requires careful handling of stamps, because forgetting to unlock or validate can lead to deadlocks or inconsistent data. No fairness. Unlike re-entrant lock, stamped lock does not support fairness, so threads may experience starvation under heavy contention. Optimistic read limitations. So if the system frequently switches between reads and writes. Optimistic reads may often fail validation reducing their benefits. So in light of this information, why don't we do a few examples using stamp lock and read dominant workloads? Okay. Applications where reads are significantly more frequent than writes, such as caching or reporting systems. Another great use would be low contention scenarios, situations where blocking is undesirable or even unnecessary, such as multithreaded simulations. Right. So let's just before we get to what I was saying, we're going to do compare stamped lock and read write lock. All right. So remember stamped lock offers several advantages over read write lock, particularly in scenarios where read operations dominate write operations. So we'll compare them according to their performance. First up, read write lock. When a thread acquires the read lock, other threads can still read. But if a write lock is requested, all readers must finish first, potentially causing contention with a stamped lock. Well, of course, stamped lock supports optimistic reads which are non-blocking. This significantly reduces contention, allowing for better performance in read heavy workloads. There's second granularity. Okay, read write lock provides two main lock states. Read and write. It's simpler, but less flexible and controlling access. Stamped lock uses a stamp based mechanism for locks, offering fine grained control and the ability to validate and convert lock states dynamically. Third overhead. Read write lock incurs higher overhead due to blocking reads and writes, especially in highly concurrent systems. Stamp lock optimistic reads avoid blocking, reducing overhead, and improving throughput for scenarios with frequent reads. Fourth complexity read write lock is easier to use since it implements the lock interface and integrates with Java's try with resources for automatic lock management. Stamp lock. Yeah, it's more complex to use. It kind of requires explicit unlocking and manual validation of optimistic reads. And lastly, fairness read write lock can be configured for fairness, ensuring threads are processed in the order of their requests. Stamped lock does not support fairness like at all, and this might just lead to thread starvation under high contention. So as a result of all this, we can actually say that the stamped lock is a modern alternative to the read write lock that excels in read heavy, low contention scenarios. It's optimistic reading capabilities allow for high throughput and low overhead, but obviously requiring careful validation to ensure correctness. So when you understand when to use these optimistic reads and when to fall back to traditional locking, Well, we'll definitely be able to build highly performant and scalable multithreaded applications. All right, my friends. So that's a lot of theory. But it was important to understand. Now let's put it all into practice. So what we'll do is implement a simple banking system where multiple threads attempt to read and update an account balance. Now, since we learned how to use reentrant lock and read write lock in the previous videos, what we'll do is we'll try to develop this example using stamped lock. All right so let's take action. First we'll need to create a new package. Its name is going to be Advanced Locking mechanism. So now I want to create a new Java class in this package. And the name of this class will be Bank account. Now in this class I'll first create a balance. This field represents the current account balance. Okay so this is the shared resource that we want to protect right. The account balance. So after that I'll create an instance of the stamped lock class. So this class is also included in the Java.util.concurrent locks package. This class provides a locking mechanism allowing read write and optimistic reads. So with this instance we will control access to the balance. And now I'll just create a method named deposit. This method will take an amount as a parameter and add it to the balance. Okay, so I will acquire a write lock using the write lock method to ensure exclusive access during the update. Now I'll print the deposit amount with the thread name. Next, we can add the amount to the balance and assign it to the balance again. Follow. So I'll just print the new balance with the thread name. And finally I'll release the write lock using unlock write. All right. So that's the deposit method is now ready. I want to now create a method named withdraw. Now this method will take an amount as a parameter and subtract it from the balance. I'll acquire a write lock using the write lock method to ensure exclusive access during the update. Now, before subtracting the amount from the balance, we'll need to check if the balance is greater than or equal to the amount with an if statement. So if the balance is greater than or equal to the amount, I will subtract it from the balance. And I will print the withdrawal amount and the new balance with the thread name. Else If the amount is greater than the balance, I'll give an insufficient balance message to the user. So finally I will release the write lock using unlock write. Okay, now we've got a withdrawal method also ready. So I now want to create a method named Getbalance. Optimistic. So this method will read the balance optimistically, allowing concurrent writes. It's got nothing to do with hope and money's here. So I want to first acquire an optimistic read lock using try optimistic read and transfer it to a long variable. I'll hold the current balance in another variable. Now I'll read the current balance and check if the optimistic lock is still valid using validate. And if the lock is invalid, I will acquire a proper read lock and reread the balance to ensure consistency. Follow. Now in the finally block, I will release the read lock if it was acquired. And next I will print the current balance read by the thread. Lastly, I'll return the current balance. All right, so now that method's ready I will need to create a method named Getbalance. And this method will acquire a shared read lock using read lock. It will read the current balance while ensuring consistency. And finally I will release the read lock using unlock read. All right. So now that is ready ready ready. And now we got to create the main test class. Let the class name be stamped lock example test. So this class will contain the main method. And then simulate the use of stamped lock in a banking scenario. So in the main method I'll create an instance of the bank account class. Let the name of this instance be account. Now this instance will represent a bank account that threads can read and update. Now I'll create a runnable instance named deposit task. This task will deposit money into the account. I'll also create a three iteration loop to simulate the deposit withdrawal and account reading operations. Now inside the for loop, I want to call the deposit method with an amount of 100. After each call, the thread will sleep for 500 milliseconds to simulate a delay. I'll handle any interruptions to the thread by calling thread dot current thread dot interrupt. So we've got a deposit task ready to go. And very similarly, let's create a withdrawal task to withdraw money from the account. And again I'll create a three iteration for loop. And the loop I'll call the withdrawal method. And we'll just make the amount 50. And again the thread will sleep for 500 milliseconds. And lastly I will handle the interrupted exception. Okay, so now we've got our withdrawal task. So now what's left to do? Create another task for optimistic read. So I'll create a runnable instance named read task. So this task will read the balance of the account using an optimistic read method. I'll also create a three iteration loop to simulate the deposit and account reading operations. So inside the for loop I will call the get balance optimistic method. And similar to the other tasks, the thread will sleep for 500 milliseconds. And I will handle interruptions appropriately again. All right. So far, so good. The tasks look ready. So now I want to create three threads for these tasks. We'll let the name of the first thread be depositor thread. The first parameter will be deposit task. The thread name will be depositor. And I'll duplicate this line twice. This will be for the withdraw task. In the last thread will be for the read task. All right. Now let's start all three threads so they execute their respective tasks concurrently. And after that, I'll call the join method on each thread to ensure the main thread waits until all threads complete their execution. And if an interruption occurs, I'll handle it. And finally, after all threads have finished, I will print the final balance of the account using the get balance method. You follow that. Thank you. That's good. Now the structure is ready. Let's go ahead and run the code. Good, good. Let's observe the output. So you see each operation is happening concurrently with updates to the balance logged in sequence. The final balance reflects the sum of all deposits minus all withdrawals. So in this example, three deposits were made and a total of 300 units of money were deposited, and similarly three withdrawals were made in 150 units of money were withdrawn. All right. So we've got the final balance gets printed to the console as 150 units. Now of course due to the different scheduling of the threads, if the withdrawal thread runs first, this result may vary for you as the initial balance will be insufficient. So as a result, stamped lock provides thread safe access to the balance while minimizing contention, especially for read operations. All right my friends, well done. Thanks for hanging in there. We've talked about re-entrant lock, read, write, lock and stamped lock mechanisms. We also developed a small console application that simulates bank account management using stamped lock. Good job. All right. You deserve a short break here. Short break and stick around. I'll see you next time. Yeah. We got another video coming up for you. See you then.
