=== 1. Introduction to Synchronization ===
Well. Hello there, my friends. Thanks for coming back. So previously we talked about monitoring the state of a thread. And in this video we're going to be diving into a crucial topic in multithreading. So that topic is synchronization and concurrency control. When multiple threads try to access shared resources like variables or objects at the same time, things can get messy. So it's super important to make sure they don't interfere with each other. And Java gives us some pretty powerful tools to help with that. So when we're talking about synchronization, we're actually referring to controlling access to shared resources. But maybe think of it like this. If multiple threads are trying to access the same critical section of code, like a method or a block, or we're going to need to ensure that only one thread is executing it at a time. And this is where the keyword synchronized comes in. So when a method is marked as synchronized, only one thread can execute that method at any given time for that object. The others are going to have to wait their turn. All right, so perhaps it's time to talk about the keyword volatile. Now imagine a scenario where multiple threads are reading and writing to the same variable C without synchronization. One thread may not see the latest value because of caching. That's where volatile comes in. Volatile ensures that all threads see the most recent write to a variable immediately, but it does not guarantee atomicity. For example, which means it won't help with complex operations like incrementing a value. All right. Let's talk about the difference between volatile and synchronized. So volatile makes sure that changes to a variable are immediately visible to all threads. Synchronize like consider ensures both visibility and atomicity, meaning that only one thread can access a critical section at a time, preventing race conditions. So when we come back in the next video, we're going to dive into coding for thread synchronization. And then you'll get it a whole lot clearer. See you in the next video.

=== 2. “synchronized” Keyword ===
Well. Hi everybody. Welcome back. So check it out. Last time we talked about synchronization how it can help us prevent issues when multiple threads access shared resources. But now it's really time to jump into the coding part and see how it all works together by practicing. So we're going to start by showing what happens when we don't synchronize shared resources, and how it can actually lead to incorrect results. Then we'll fix it by using the synchronize keyword to control thread access. I can see here I've created a new project named counterexample in thread, and here we create a simple counter class. So we define a private field count to store the value that will be incremented by multiple threads. Create the increment method without synchronization. The increment method increases the value of count by one. So this method is not synchronized, and that means multiple threads can access and modify the count at the same time. Since count plus plus is not an atomic operation, considering it consists of reading, incrementing, and writing the value, this can lead to thread interference and inconsistent results. Then, after I created the get count method. The get count method simply returns the current value of count. Now we're going to be using that later to display the final result after the threads have finished executing, so I want to open the main class. In the main method, we create an instance of the counter class which both threads will modify. Here we create and initialize thread. Then I want to explain what's happening. So two threads called thread one and thread two are created using lambda expressions. Each thread runs a loop a thousand times, calling the counter increment method to increment the value of count. Both threads are trying to access modify the same shared variable count at the same time and that, my friends, leads to race conditions and both reds are started using the start method. Now I can explain this too. The start method creates new threads and begins their execution in parallel. The run method within each thread is invoked by start, not directly. Next, join the threads and these wait for completion. The join method is used to ensure that the main thread waits until both thread one and thread two have finished executing. Without join, the main thread might proceed to print the result before the threads are done, incrementing the counter, leading to inconsistent output. The try catch block handles any interrupted exception that might occur during this wait. After both threads have finished executing, the final value of count is printed. Now, due to the lack of synchronization in the increment method, the final count may not be the expected 2000 and consider 1000 increments per thread. This is because of thread interference where one threads updates might just override the others. That's right, some problems occur, such as thread interference and race conditions, because multiple threads trying to modify the same variable, variables, such as count simultaneously can result in data being overwritten or skipped, leading to inconsistent results. Due to the fact that count Plus plus is not an atomic operation. And a situation where multiple threads compete to modify shared resources without proper synchronization, that's going to cause the unpredictable results. So in order to fix this issue, we're going to need to add synchronization. And this will ensure that only one thread can access the critical section of code for the increment method at a time. Excellent my friends. So we saw how multiple threads can interfere with each other when accessing a shared resource like our count variable, and as a result, we didn't get the expected final value of the counter because the threads were modifying the value at the same time. This is a real common issue in multithreaded programs, and it's exactly why we need to think about thread safety. Now I'll show you how the synchronized keyword ensures that only one thread can access a critical section of code at a time. Yeah. See, previously we didn't know anything about synchronized keywords, did we? So let's fix our problem by adding the keyword synchronize to ensure that only one thread can access the increment method at a time. Now I want to talk a little bit about how synchronized keywords work. By adding synchronized to the increment method, we ensure that only one thread can execute this method at a time, and this means that if one thread is incrementing the count variable, the other thread has to wait until the first thread is done. And this provides us with thread safety. So now when we run this code, both threads will safely increment the counter without interfering with each other, and then the final result will be correct and that would be 2000. See how it provides the correct output? It should now consistently be final count. Synchronized 2000. Demonstrating that the threads no longer interfere with each other. All right. Excellent. So we see how adding the synchronized keyword to our increment method prevents multiple threads from modifying the count variable at the same time, giving us the correct output. Synchronization solves the problem of thread interference, but there are some other situations where we might need a more lightweight solution. So next time we're going to explore the volatile keyword. And that's a big help when we only need to make sure that changes to a variable are immediately visible to all threads. So we'll see how volatile works and what it can do for us in those specific cases next time.

=== 3. “volatile” Keyword ===
All right. Hello, everybody. Thanks for coming back. So in the previous video, we looked at how to solve thread interference by using the synchronized keyword. Well today in this video we're going to explore another key concept in Java multithreading. And that would be the keyword volatile. Now while synchronized ensures atomicity and visibility of shared data, volatile helps us make variables immediately visible to all threads. But it doesn't solve atomicity issues. We're going to see this in action though, through an example. We'll get started with the first part of the code. And here we declare a volatile boolean named running. So by adding the volatile keyword we're ensuring that all threads will always see the most up to date value of the running variable without volatile. It's actually possible that one thread might cache the value of running locally and not see Nazi changes made by the other threat. With volatile, the variable is always read from and written to main memory, making changes visible across all threads. And here we are creating the stop running method. So in this method we set running to false. So thanks to the volatile keyword, this change will be instantly visible to any thread accessing the running variable. Now we're going to need to talk about this a little bit. Without volatile one thread might continue to operate on a cached version of running and not notice the change immediately. With volatile, all threads will see that running is false as soon as this change is made. And here I've created the run method. And this is the main logic for our thread. It uses a while loop that checks the value of running. Now, as long as running is true, the thread will keep printing. Thread is running. So when running becomes false, the thread will break out of the loop and print thread has stopped. I'm sure you know this loop will continue as long as the running flag is true. But remember, the volatile keyword ensures that when we set running to false in another thread, this change is immediately visible to this loop. So then I'll create and start a new thread. In the main method, we'll create an instance of our volatile example class. Then start a new thread and run the run method from that instance. This new thread will immediately start executing the loop in the run method. Printing thread is running over and over again. Then let the thread run for a bit, and we'll then add a small delay by calling Thread.sleep print 1000 to let the thread run for a second and see. During this time the run method will keep printing, thread is running repeatedly and sleep. Here is just to give the thread some time to run before we stop it. So after a second we call the stop running method which sets running to false. Yeah, so thanks to the volatile keyword, the running thread will immediately see this change and stop executing the loop. The thread then prints thread is stopped and terminates. Okay, so let's summarize some of the key points here. Volatile ensures that changes made to a variable in this case running are visible to all threads immediately. It does not guarantee atomicity, meaning it's not suited for more complex operations like incrementing a variable, which we saw in the previous video. It's actually best used with simple flags, like our running variable, where we need to make sure threads get the latest value right away. All right, so that's it for now. But we have seen how to use the volatile keyword to ensure visibility between threads. Volatile is simpler than synchronized. But it really is important to know that it doesn't handle more complex operations. For that while we're still going to need to use synchronization mechanisms. Now, when we come back in the next video, we're going to dive deeper into high level concurrency tools like the executor framework. And that's going to help manage thread pools and make multithreading way more efficient. So I want to thank you again for being here. Stick around though. We've got more in the next video.
