=== 1. Section Overview ===
So my friends, welcome back. Now, I know you really are ready to continue learning with this Java programming language course. We're going to start a new section here. We're going to talk about strings in Java. Yeah. At first glance it might get a little complex, but I'll tell you working through it like this, you're going to master it in no time. So we break it down like this. We're going to talk about the string class in detail, and then we'll learn how to create a string object. Then we'll do some useful methods of that string class. But here's the kicker. We're going to talk about why strings are immutable. Then we'll introduce the string buffer class. And we're going to learn how to create a string buffer object. Then you'll be ready to use the Stringbuilder class and learn how to create a Stringbuilder object. So I know it sounds like a lot. Well, why don't we just get started? Oh wait, we got to do it in the next video. I'll see you then.

=== 7. StringBuffer Class ===
String buffer class. Java Stringbuffer class is used to create mutable or modifiable strings. So at any point in time it'll contain some particular sequence of characters, but the length and the content of the sequence can be changed through certain method calls. So it's the same as the string class, except it's mutable. So the value of the string buffer object can be changed. It also means that it can be assigned to the new value. In our example, we define str buffer as an object with the Java value. And this object is stored in heap memory and its value can be changed. And we can use the append method of the string buffer class. And what that does is it appends the value program to the end And then it modifies the value. Java program which is allowed in the string buffer. So why don't I show you some examples with the string buffer. All right, my friend. So then I'll just create a new Java class. The class name will be Stringbuffer example. And lastly I'll add the main method. So in this exercise we will practice with the string buffer methods to understand more clearly. So why don't we just create a string buffer object and name it buffer with its value as. Welcome to. And then we use the append method to append the value Java. So the append method always adds these characters at the end of the buffer. Now string buffer objects are mutable as we were talking about before. That means they're changeable. So after the append operation, the object buffer points out. Welcome to Java. So why don't we go ahead and learn some other useful methods of the string buffer by using them in the print method? So in the first print method we'll print the value of the object buffer. Then we use the length method to find the length of the object buffer. The length method is the same as the string length method. Then we can use the insert method to insert the value world into a string of this string buffer by adding the length method. The insert method adds the characters at a specified point. So we used the length method of the buffer as a specified point, so the value world will be added to the end of the buffer. Make sense? Then we use the reverse method to reverse the value of the string buffer object. Ether. The string class in Java does not have a reverse method. However, the Stringbuffer and Stringbuilder class have built in reverse methods. So then we can use the reverse method again to get the original string. Then finally we can use the delete method to remove the first 11 characters in a substring of this string buffer. All right, I think we're pretty well set. So let's run the code. And you can see the results in the console. The new value of the buffer object is welcome to Java. the length of the buffer object is 15. Then, after the insert method, the new value of the buffer object is. Welcome to Java world, and then after the reverse method for the last value of the buffer object, the reversed string is displayed. So we used the reverse method again to get the original string, the original value of the buffer object is displayed, and then after the delete method, the first 11 characters are removed from the original value of string and the last value. Java world is displayed. So yeah. In this lecture we did some pretty fun examples to understand the string buffer methods. And the string buffer class also has a whole bunch of methods. So I would advise you that you should do as many exercises as you can muster with all of them. It does get fun.

=== 8. StringBuilder Class ===
Stringbuilder class. So Stringbuilder is kind of the same as the string buffer. It stores the object in heap and it also can be modified. The Stringbuilder has the same methods as the string buffer, but each method in the string buffer is synchronized. That is, the string buffer is thread safe. So the main difference between the string buffer and the stringbuilder is performance. The Stringbuilder is faster than the string buffer because the string buffer is synchronized. So in our example, we create Stringbuilder as an object with Java as its value, and this object is stored in heap memory and its value can be changed. And we use the append method of the Stringbuilder class. And then this method appends the value program at the end and it modifies the value. Java program which is allowed in the stringbuilder. So why don't we do up some examples with stringbuilder? All right, my friend. So then I'll just create a new Java class. Let the class name be Stringbuilder example. And lastly I will add the main method. And now I'll copy the codes from the Stringbuffer example class. Now let's change the Stringbuffer with Stringbuilder in object instantiation. And comment on the code part. So there's actually an easy way to change multiple expressions that are the same in IntelliJ. At the same time. To do this. Select the expression you want to change and then use the shift F6 key combination. This is going to allow you to rename the selected word. So when you type the new expression you want and press enter. All expressions will be replaced with a new one. Now if you don't want to use a shortcut, go ahead. Select the word that you want to rename and right click with a mouse. Select the refactor and rename options from the menu that opens. Then enter the new name. Press enter. Simple as that. So you can see this way is just perfect for changing names of fields. And what do you see in the code? All the methods of the Stringbuffer class can also be used in the Stringbuilder class without any other change. Okay, so let's run the code and there's your proof. The same results are in the console.

=== 9. String vs String Buffer vs String Builder ===
So let's have a look at the differences between string stringbuffer and string builder. The string object is stored in the string pool, but stringbuffer and Stringbuilder objects are stored in heap. The string object is immutable in Java, but the Stringbuffer and Stringbuilder are mutable objects. The performance of string and Stringbuilder is fast, but Stringbuffer is slow because do you remember? Stringbuffer is a synchronized class. The Stringbuilder and Stringbuffer are almost the same. The main difference is that the Stringbuffer is synchronized and the stringbuilder is not synchronized. So that means that the stringbuilder is faster than Stringbuffer, but the performance difference is negligible for small programs. Their functionality is the same. So if your program is used by multiple threads, then it's probably best to use Stringbuffer. If your program is used by a single thread, then by all means go ahead and use Stringbuilder. So when you learn the thread subject of Java next time, I certainly hope that you'll understand it better, but it's an advanced topic for what we're covering now.

=== 10. Reverse String ===
So congratulations, you have made it to our fourth project that we're doing together. So in this project, we will write a Java program that finds the reverse of a given string. So in the string project right click on the string package and select new Class. Specify the class name as reverse string. And of course we will use the scanner class so that we can get input from the user in Java. And we get a message to enter the string by using the print method. So we declare a variable string with string type and assign the next line method of the scanner class to this string. Now the next line method is used to read the whole line. And we declare a variable length with the int type and assign the length of the string by using the length method. So let's declare another variable reversed string with the string type and its initial value is empty. Now we start to write a for loop. Now in for loop, we declare a variable I and we assign length minus one as the expression to this new variable I. The loop condition is I is greater than or equal to zero, and I is decremented by one. We use the char at method to extract characters from the given string, and then concatenate them in reverse order to reverse the string. So in the print method, we will display the resulting value of the reversed string. And we can close the scanner object. Okay. Are you ready? Let's run the code. So let's enter the string. Java is easy. So yeah, our string is reversed and displayed. What do you think? So in this program we read a string from the user. Then in a for loop, we obtain the characters of the original string from the end by using char at as the method of the string. And then we concatenate them into a new string by using the plus operator. And then finally we print the reversed string.
