=== 1. Intro to Exception ===
So in this section let's talk about exception handling in Java. First we're going to learn what is an exception and then how to create exceptions in Java. Then we'll cover the difference between errors and exceptions. And then we'll talk about the types of exceptions. Then we'll learn try catch block. Then we'll learn finally block. Then we'll learn how to use throw and throws as keywords. And then to wrap it up I'll give you some useful exception methods. What is exception? An exception is a special type of error. So during the execution of a program, that means a runtime. It's something that disrupts the normal flow of the program's instructions. Abnormal conditions that occur while executing the program will cause exceptions. So while writing the program, these conditions are not known, right? So if you don't consider these conditions, the execution can be terminated abruptly. For example, division by zero will cause an error in a program. The Java language provides an excellent exception handling mechanism. So these mechanisms minimize the chances of a system crash or abrupt program termination. So for this reason, Java is known as a robust language.

=== 2. Error vs Exception ===
The difference between error and exception. So an error is a critical condition that cannot be handled by the code of the program. An exception is the exceptional situation that can be handled by the code of the program. So the important difference between error and exception is that an error is caused due to the lack of system resources, and an exception is caused because of your code or program. But that's what you're here for and that's what we're going to learn. So let's study some other differences between errors and exceptions along with a comparison chart. So let's have a look at these differences between error and exception in the table. So as you can see here on this table in Java errors are defined in java.lang. Error as a package and exceptions are defined in the package Java.lang. Exception. So an error is caused due to a lack of system resources. Right. An exception is caused because of the code, so it's impossible to. Recover from errors, but you can recover from exceptions by handling them through. Try catch blocks. So errors are classified as an unchecked type. Exceptions are classified as a checked or unchecked type. So if we want to give some examples of errors, the stack overflow error and an out-of-memory error is certainly a couple of the major ones. And if we wanted to think of a couple of examples of exceptions, we'll call it a class not found exception and the null pointer exception. So come along I'll explain what I mean. So let's take a closer look at the hierarchy of the Java Exception class. And as you can see here in the diagram object is the topmost class in Java. All the classes extend the objects class by default in Java. That's why it's known as a superclass. So here throwable is the topmost class of the exception classes and it's located in the Java.lang package. Now throwable has two subclasses error and exception. And exceptions have been further categorized in two ways built in exceptions and user defined exceptions. Now all checked and unchecked exceptions are built in exceptions of Java. So let's learn these exceptions in detail.

=== 3. Exception Types ===
Types have exceptions. There are three types of exceptions in Java. The first one is the checked exception. Checked exceptions are mandatory to handle. You've got to deal with them. Checked exceptions are generally caused by faults outside of the code itself, such as missing resources, networking errors, stuff like that. These exceptions are checked at compile time, so these are also called compile time exceptions. For example that file not found exception. That is a checked exception. And it occurs when a file with the specified path name does not exist, or if the file does exist, but for some reason is not accessible. The second one is unchecked. Exceptions. Now they are not checked at compile time, but they are checked at runtime, so these are also called runtime exceptions. Now, when an unchecked exception is thrown, it is usually caused by a misuse of code passing a null or otherwise incorrect argument, for example. Arithmetic exception is an unchecked exception, and it occurs when you make an arithmetic error, such as dividing a number by zero. Like we mentioned earlier, the last one is the user defined exception. Now in some cases we need to define our own exception class for a special purpose based on particular application requirements. For example, let's suppose we have an account in a bank and we have $100 in this account. Now let's suppose that we attempt to withdraw $150 from our account. And of course, we can handle this scenario by using the arithmetic exception in Java. But it's not particularly meaningful for the user. So in this situation, it is nice to display an error message that is related to insufficient funds. You get the meaning. So we can create our own exceptions in Java. We just need to extend the exception class in order to create our exception. User defined exceptions are also called custom exceptions, and we'll do a bit of an exercise about these exceptions later.

=== 4. Try – Catch Block ===
Trycatch block. So if we want to handle the exception ourselves, we can use a try catch block. In Java, a try block is used to enclose the code that may throw an exception. So a try block consists of a set of executable statements during the execution of these statements. Exceptions can be thrown. Now a method that may throw an exception can also be enclosed by the try block. So try block is always followed by a catch block and we handle the exception in the catch block. So one or more catch blocks can follow a try block. Now in a catch block we can use the exception object to print details of the exception. And as you can see here in the diagram First the try block is executed, and if the code in the try block throws an exception, the catch block is executed. Multiple catch blocks. So we use multiple catch blocks after a try block. A try block may be followed by any number of catch blocks. Each catch block handles a particular type of exception. Now, before Java seven, we used to catch multiple exceptions one by one, as shown in this slide. But with Java seven and beyond, if a catch block handles a multiple exception, we can then separate them using a pipe. And in this case the exception parameter is final, so we can't change it. So this feature actually reduces code redundancy.

=== 5. finally Block ===
Final block. So the Java final block is used to execute important code such as a closing connection, stream, etc.. If an exception occurs in the program, the currently executing method may stop without completing execution. So in that situation, some codes such as closing a connection, will just never get called. Java provides the finally block to deal with these exceptions. The finally block is always executed whether or not the exception is handled, and the finally block follows. Try or catch blocks. Now sure, the finally block is optional, but this block is placed after the last catch block. And if you have a look at the diagram right here, first the try block is executed. And then if the code in the try block throws an exception, the catch block is executed and the finally block is executed. And then if the code in the try block does not throw an exception, the finally block is executed again. So let's make some of our own examples with exception handling, so that we can deepen our understanding. All right. So we'll first close the previous project and create a new Java project. Let the project name be exception handling. Other options will be the same as the previous project. So without changing anything I'll just click the create button. Okay, so in this project I want to create a new package and a new Java class. The package name can be exception. And the class name can be exception handling. And lastly I will add the main method. Okay. So to understand exception in Java we will create a small program that does a simple mathematical operation. For this I will need to declare three variables with the int type first number one and assign it a zero. Second number two and assign a zero to that. And the last one result and assign that a zero. So we will use the scanner class for getting input from the user. And we see a message to enter the first int number by using the print method. And assign the next int method of the scanner class to variable number one. And we see a message to enter the second int number by using the print method. So let's assign the next int method of the scanner class to the variable number two. Okay. So let's assign number slash Number two as an expression to the variable result. And then let's print the value of the variable result by using the print method. And then finally we should close the scanner object by using the close method. Okay. So are you ready to run the code. So in the console screen we'll enter 12 for the first number and two for the second number. The result is six. All right so let's run the code again. And we enter Java as the text for the first number instead of an integer number. And there it is. See. So we got an exception that's named input mismatch exception. So you see that the program was terminated. So you see what's going on here, right? The Nextint method could not read the Java text that we entered as an integer. So it threw an input mismatch exception object. Now the second print method message enter second int number was not executed. So we want to catch this error and then display our message in the console. And we do that by using the try catch. Finally blocks and a try block encloses a code which may throw exceptions. So let's enclose that code and let's see if it will throw an exception with a try catch block. The exception that might be thrown here is a input mismatch exception. And so a catch block has been provided to handle it. So we copy input mismatch exception from the console and paste it within the parentheses following the catch keyword. And then we import this class. We must declare an exception type object that's named E. And we will use this identifier to display an error in the next exercises. E for error. So in the catch block we can display, please enter a valid number as our message by using the print method. Now let's run the code again. And in the console screen we enter Java again. And the try catch block handles the exception and the please enter a valid number message is displayed. Cool. So let's run the code again. And in the console screen we enter 12 for the first number and zero for the second number. And there it is. We get an exception that's named arithmetic exception. So let's handle this exception. And the second catch block. And we'll write arithmetic exception within parentheses following the catch keyword arithmetic exception. That's a class that is predefined in the java.lang package. So we don't need to import this class. Right. So back in the catch block we display second number cannot be zero as a message by using the print method. Now let's run the code again in the console screen, we enter 12 for the first number and zero for the second number. The try catch block handles the exception and the second number cannot be zero. Message is displayed. Now, if any exception occurs except these two exceptions, we can use a superclass of all the exceptions that are named exception. In order to handle it. So let's handle this exception in the third catch block. So we'll write exception within the parentheses following the catch keyword. The exception class is predefined in the java.lang package. So of course we don't need to import this class. In the catch block we'll display an exception occurred message by using the print method. And then let's add the finally block after the last catch block. The finally block, by the way, is always executed. So in this finally block we'll display. This statement is always executed as our message by using the print method. So now we can run the code again. And in the console screen we enter 12 for the first number and two for the second number, resulting in six. And there is no exception. Finally, block is executed and the message is displayed. So let's run the code again. Now on the console screen, I will enter Java for the first number and as you can see, the related catch block handles the exception and please enter valid number messages displayed also. Finally, block is executed again and the this statement is always executed message is displayed. So as a result, note that the code you write in the finally block is executed in all cases. So why should we use the finally code block in this case? Well, actually, just as I mentioned at the beginning, we don't have to use the finally block. But if we have code that we want to run, in any case, it makes sense to use it in the finally block. Okay, my friends, I think that is enough about how exceptions occur and how to handle these exceptions with blocks. So why don't we just continue the program using a do while loop here until the correct parameters are entered by the user? Okay, so let's finish out the program when the correct parameters are entered and the result is calculated without error. So I will create a do while loop here and I will move these codes into the do block. Okay I need to check this loop with a condition. For this first I'll declare a variable is flag with the boolean type. Its initial value will be false and we use the variable is flag in the while keyword. This loop continues until is flag is true. So back in the code, after printing the result, we'll assign true to the variable is flag. And if an exception occurs in the code, then the value of the variable is flag will not be true. So the while loop will continue. Of course, if there is no exception in the code, then the value of the variable is set to true and the while loop will be terminated. Okay, so why don't we run that code again and let's enter Java for the first number. The catch block handles the exception and the. Please enter a valid number message is displayed. Also, the finally block message is displayed and the while loop continues and asks us to enter the first number because the variable is flag is false. So we enter 12 for the first number and zero for the second number. The catch block handles the exception and the second number cannot be zero messages displayed. And also the finally block message is displayed and the while loop continues and asks us to enter the first number because the variable is flag is still false. So we enter 12 for the first number and four for the second number, resulting in three division. Operation is done successfully, the variable is flag is set true, and the finally block message is displayed, and the loop then terminates. Because the value of the variable is flag is true. There you have it, my friends. Why don't we take a short break here? See you next time.

=== 6. throw Keyword ===
Throw keyword, so we can use the throw keyword to explicitly throw an exception from the code. We can throw either checked or unchecked exceptions this way, and the throw keyword is used in the following method. We'll look at a basic example about throwing an exception from the method. So what you see here is a divide method that returns a double value. In this slide. Now in the method, because we can't divide a number by zero, we'll add throw arithmetic exception and pass a single string constructor parameter which is the exception message divider cannot be equal to zero. So in our program we can handle this exception by using our try catch block. So why don't we do an example with the throw keyword. So in the exception handling project just right click on the exception package and select new class. Specify the class name as throw exception. Now outside the main method, let's declare a static double method. Divide with two double parameters x and y. So in this method we will check the value of the variable y. So if the value of the variable y is zero, we'll throw the arithmetic exception by using the throw keyword. We pass. The divider cannot be equal to zero. Message to the constructor of the arithmetic exception class. If the value of the variable y is not zero, we return the x division y. So let's call this method from the main method. In the main method, we declare a variable D with double type. And we call the divide method with parameters 8.5 and zero and assign this method to variable d. Okay, so let's run the code. Look at that. Out of the gate. We got an exception that's named arithmetic exception. The divide method is invoked because the remainder is zero. The arithmetic exception is thrown. The message that is passed to the constructor is displayed in the output, and the program is then terminated, just as we expected, right? So now we have to handle this exception by using a try catch block. So in the main method let's enclose the code that may throw that exception with a try catch block. And we'll copy the arithmetic exception from the console and paste it within the parentheses following the catch keyword. Also So we'll add the object E. So in the print method we use the exception object E to display the message and the exception type. Okay. So let's run the code. And the catch block handles the exception. And the exception type by displaying the error message divider cannot be equal to zero. So let's change the parameter zero with 3.4. And let's print the value of the variable d by using the print method. Okay, good. Let's run the code. The result is 2.5. The catch block is not executed because there is no exception.

=== 7. throws Keyword ===
Throws keyword. So we use the throws keyword in the method declaration. If we know which exceptions can be thrown from this method, we use the throws keyword in the method definition. If you are using a risky piece of code without implementing the try catch, well, you declare that it throws an exception. So the caller method might handle these exceptions with the try catch block. But if we call this method from the main class, we can handle these exceptions there. So in our example we have the void divide method that has no parameters. We throw two exception classes. The first one is number format exception and the second one is the arithmetic exception. The first parse Int is the method that throws the number format exception. Because eight B is not a number format in the division operation, if the first number is in a number format and the divider is equal to zero, it throws the arithmetic exception. So let's see what that looks like with an example of the throws keyword. So in the exception handling project right click on the exception package and select new class. Specify the class name as throws exception. Now outside the main method, let's declare a static void method divide that has no parameters. So this method throws the number format exception and the arithmetic exception followed by and separated by a comma. In the divide method, we declare the variable a and assign it parse int method of the integer class with the value eight b. And we declare the second variable b and assign the parse int method of the integer class with the value of zero. Now the parse int method is used for parsing a string argument into an integer object, and we declare the last variable c and assign it a divided by B. Now we display the value of variable C by using the print method. In the main method, we call the divide method. Now we need to handle these two exceptions that the divide method throws. So let's enclose the code that may throw an exception with a try catch block. And in the first catch block we handle the number format exception. In this catch block we'll display the invalid number format message by using the print method. And in the second catch block we'll handle the Arithmetic exception. And in this catch block, we'll display that you cannot divide a number by zero message by using the print method. Okay. That looks yeah that looks just about right. So let's run the code. So as you can see we did get the error message that we defined in the first catch block. Now let's see how the program works. The divide method is invoked. First the eight b in the first parse int method is not a number format. So this method throws number format exception. The first catch block handles this exception, and the invalid number format Reformat message gets displayed in the console. Okay, let's change the value eight b to eight in the first parse int method. And we'll be able to test the arithmetic exception. All right let's run the code again. And now you can see this time we got the message we defined in the second catch block. The divide method is invoked. And because the remainder is zero arithmetic exception is thrown. Now the second catch block handles this exception. And the you cannot divide the number by zero message is displayed in the console. All right. So that's how that throws keyword gets used. So let's just take a short break here. And in the next lesson we'll cover the difference between throw and throws. Both keywords. Ones is missing a letter. See you next time.

=== 8. throw vs throws ===
So let's compare throw and the throws keywords by using a table to understand it better. The keyword throw is used to explicitly throw an exception. The keyword throws is used to declare an exception. Throw is followed by an instance. Throws is followed by a class. The keyword throw is used within the method, and throws is used with the method signature. Also, we can declare only one exception at a time with throw. But with throws we can declare multiple exceptions at one time.

=== 9. Useful Methods of Throwable Class ===
Useful methods of throwable class. Java. Exceptions and all of its subclasses don't really provide any specific methods. The throwable class includes all of the methods, so you see three useful methods of the throwable class here in the slide. The first one is the Getmessage method, and this method returns the string message of the throwable class. And this message can also be provided while creating the exception through its constructor. So this message is null if the exception object is created with no error message. The second one is the two string method, and this method returns a short description of a throwable. And the third one is the print stack trace method. And this method prints the stack trace information. So are you ready to make some examples with the useful methods of throwable class? I think you are. So in the exception handling project, just right click on the exception package and select new class. Specify the class name as throwable method. And outside the main method, let's declare a static double method. Divide with two double parameters x and y. So in this method we will check the value of the variable y. And if the value of the variable y is zero, we will throw the arithmetic exception by using the throw keyword with no constructor message. Now, if the value of the variable y is not zero, we return x divided by y. Okay, so let's call this method from the main method. And in the main method we declare a variable D with double type and we call the divide method with the parameters 5.6 and zero, and then assign this method to variable d. Now let's enclose the code that may throw the exception with a try catch block. In the catch block we will handle arithmetic exception. So in this catch block we'll display. The divider cannot be equal to zero message by using the print method. Okay so let's run the code. So the catch block handles the exception. And the divider cannot be equal to zero. Message is displayed. Excellent. So let's try to use other useful methods of the throwable class in the catch block. The first one is get message. So let's write the get message method in the print method for testing. Now this method returns the string message of throwable class in the divide method. We didn't pass any message to the constructor of the arithmetic exception class, so this method returns null. Null is simply a value that indicates that the object reference is not currently referring to an object. So let's run that code and there's the result. You see, the result is null. Now, in order to solve this problem, we'll need to pass a message to the constructor of the arithmetic exception in the divide method. So we pass the arithmetic exception occurred message. And all right. So let's run the code again. And yeah there it is. So the arithmetic exception occurred. Message is right there in the console. Now the second method is the toString method. So let's write the toString method in the print method for testing. And this method returns a short description of the throwable class. So let's run the code. You see the type of exception with its package and its message. And now the last method is the print stack trace. So this method prints the stack trace information and returns nothing. So we cannot use this method within the print method because it is predefined with void. So we will call it directly in the code. All right, so let's run the code again. Well you're looking at the result. This method helps to trace the exception. So by using this method we can see which method actually causes the exception in which line number. Now in the console screen, if you choose method that causes the exception IntelliJ automatically selects a line in the code. So apart from these, the get localized message method is one of the most important methods used. So in fact, why don't we use this as a last and then we'll wrap up our video. So you can see the error message is briefly printed in the console screen. All right. So there's a bunch more useful methods of the throwable class. Let's go ahead and take a short break and I'll see you in the next video.

=== 10. Bank Account Balance ===
Well. Hello there, my friends. Welcome back. So guess what? I'm here for another Java project. So in this video we're just going to make a very simple project to better understand this exception subject. So in this project we're going to develop a menu driven application to manage a simple bank account. So this application will help us to deposit and withdraw money and it'll show us our current balance. Now also in this project we will create our own exceptions and use them in the program. Let's get started. So first I just want to close the old project and create a new Java project. And I will specify the project name bank account balance. Now don't change the other options. Just click the create button. So in this project I will create a new package and Java class. Specify the package name as bank account. And we'll just call the class name insufficient fund exception. Nobody likes to see that I know insufficient fund exception is a type of user defined exception. Remember we were talking about that. So now we're going to use it. We can of course create our own exceptions by extending the exception class in Java. So our balance exception class extends the superclass Exception. All right. So in this class we declare a private variable message with the string type. And also we create a constructor for displaying an error message. So let's declare a public constructor that's named insufficient fund exception and give it the parameter message. And in the constructor method we'll assign the parameter variable message to the variable message of this class. And now let's create a getter method of the variable message. Okay, so we completed our exception class. All right. So now let's create a new class. So right click on the bank account package and select new class. Specify the class name as bank account. Now first we'll declare a variable balance with double type. And we declare a constructor that's named bank account. So in this constructor we initialize the variable Balance with 0.0 as our value, and we create a public void method deposit with one double parameter that's named amount. So in the deposit method we will assign balance plus amount to the variable balance. And of course that means that if we deposit the money into the account, we will increase the balance by the added amount. Now I want to create another method. This method will be the withdraw money method. So. All right. Public void withdraw. And this method also will take one parameter in parenthesis I right double amount. In the withdraw method I'll create an if statement. If the amount is greater than the balance then I will throw insufficient fund exception using the throw keyword. So I write throw new insufficient fund exception. And as a constructor parameter I will show a message. The message can be insufficient. Balance withdraw process couldn't be completed. All right. Okay. So you can see in the throw part we get a compilation error. Well if you place a mouse cursor on the insufficient Fun Exception class, IntelliJ shows us a quick fix dialog, doesn't it? So if you click on the more actions, it'll give you a list of possible corrections. So we've got basically two ways to handle insufficient fund exception. We can add a throws declaration to the method signature. Or we can surround this line with a try catch block. If we were to add the throws declaration we have to handle this exception in the main method later. If we use the try and catch, we can handle this exception with a try catch block here. And there's really no need to handle in the main method in this case. But I just wanted to show you that both options are actually possible. So let's go ahead and add the throws declaration and move on. So see how IntelliJ automatically inserts the throws declaration into the method signature. Okay. So now the if block is ready. If the amount is less than the balance then we assign balance minus amount to the variable balance. And this means that if we withdraw the money from the account, we decrease the balance by subtracting the amount. So now let's create a getter method of the variable balance. We'll use the get balance method for getting the current balance. Good. So let's create a main test class that's named test in the same package. So in the main method we will develop a menu driven application for choosing a process from the bank account menu. Now first we create a bank account object that's named account by using the new keyword. Then we need to take inputs from the user by using the scanner class. Now let's declare a variable choice with no initial value. Now let's start to write the do while loop. Now in loop. In the first print method, we write a title for the program output. So its name is bank account menu. That's write with all uppercase letters. So in the first option of menu it's deposit. Now let's copy the print method by using the shortcut and change the code. The second option is withdraw. Third option is show current balance. And the last option is quit. And the last print method, we give the select and option message to the user. And we assign the next int method of the scanner class to the variable choice. Now generally in menu operations we use the switch case statement. The conditional switch expression is the variable choice. Good good good. So now let's write the condition with the while keyword. If the user selects an option from the menu, the loop should continue. But if the user presses the different keys on the keyboard, the loop should terminate. So this loop is executed until the choice is greater than or equal to one, and the choice is less than or equal to three. All right. Good. Now let's create the cases in the switch block. And in the first case of switch we ask the deposit amount from the user by using the print method. And then we call the deposit method from the bank account class by using the object account. And we pass next int method of the scanner class as the parameter. And then we add the break keyword. Now in the second case of switch, before withdrawing money, we'll show the current balance to the user by using the print method. And then we can call the withdraw method from the bank account class by using the object account. And we pass the Nextint method of the scanner class as the parameter. But as you can see, we get a compilation error. All right. So I'll hover the mouse cursor over the error. Since we added the throws declaration to the withdrawal method in the bank account class, we have to handle it here. So we have two options here. Add the throws declaration again or use a try catch. So this time let's go ahead and choose the try catch block. Also let's switch the throwable method with toString to show the exception message that we pass to the constructor of the insufficient fund exception class. And lastly, I'll just add the break keyword again. Just after that, try catch block. Okay, now in the third case of this switch, we will show the current balance of the user by calling the Getbalance method from the bank account class, so I'll write s out double quotes current balance plus account dot get balance. And I will add the break keyword again. Okay. Lastly outside the do while loop I will show a buy message to the user. So double quotes buy. So if the user presses any key except one, two and three, the menu will be exited and this message gets displayed. All right. So now everything's ready. Let's go ahead and run the code and look at that. You see the bank account menu is right there on the console screen. So we'll enter one for menu choose. It asks the deposit amount. Enter 500 and the menu returns. So let's enter two. And we see the current balance is 500. And it asks withdraw amount. So let's enter 400 and go back to the main menu again. Now let's enter three. We see the current balance is 100. So the withdraw process is successful now because we have enough money in the account. Right. So let's turn back the menu again. Let's enter two again. And we see the current balance is 100. Let's enter 200 for the withdrawal amount. We'll wait for an exception message because while the balance is 100 we want to withdraw 200. We're actually waiting for the exception message to occur because there's not enough balance in it. Okay. You get it now. There you see. Insufficient fund exception gets thrown and the insufficient balance. So the withdrawal process can be completed as the message it gets displayed. So now I'll press another key on the keyboard to exit. And there you see the buy message has appeared on the console because the loop is terminated. All right, my friends, there you go. We've completed our project successfully. Now, apart from the predefined exceptions, you can create exceptions according to the program that you have developed yourself. Now, I will advise you to add new control methods in bank account class and test these controls by using the bank account menu. But you can do that in your own time. Let's wrap up this video right now, but stick around. I'll see you next time.
