=== 1. ReentrantLock and ReentrantReadWriteLock ===
Well. Hello my friends. Welcome. And in this section we're going to learn some more advanced locking mechanisms in Java. So that means we'll be talking about the reentrant lock reentrant read write lock and condition variables. So with these locks such as reentrant lock and reentrant read write lock, we can actually provide more flexible and controlled thread synchronization beyond the boundaries of the classic synchronized keyword. Now also use condition variables to make threads wait and wake up under certain conditions. All right. So let's get started with reentrant lock and reentrant read write lock. So what you basically have to understand is that reentrant lock provides an alternative to the classic synchronized blocks in Java. Now, unlike the synchronized keyword, which I'm sure you're already very familiar with reentrant lock, we can actually manage locks more flexibly, ensure fair order on the lock, and hold locks, depending on certain conditions. Reentrant lock, as the name would suggest, allows a thread to reacquire the same lock over and over again. That's the re-entrancy. So this allows a thread to reacquire the same lock while it still holds a lock. All right, you'll get used to it as time goes on, believe me. Reentrant. Read write lock allows multiple threads to read data at the same time. That's the read lock. And only one thread can write data. And that's the write lock. So this provides some really great performance benefits, especially when data read operations are frequent. re-entrant read write lock allows reading and writing operations to be done by sharing the same data. Okay, so reading operations can be done concurrently, but writing operations can be done just by the one thread. All right. So with that information, with that theory out of the way, let's get to some practice. So let's first just create a new Java project. And I'm just going to let the name be locks example. I'm not going to change the other options. I'll click on the create button. Now first let's make an example of the re-entrant lock. And we'll do an example like this. We'll create a counter and two different threads will operate on this counter. See. So each thread will try to increment the counter, but we will prevent two threads from accessing this counter at the same time. We will use reentrant lock to make one thread. Acquire the lock, so that the other thread will have to wait before accessing the same resource. So this example is going to show how we can safely control resources when working with multiple threads. All right. So let's start by first creating a new Java class in this project. Its name will be reentrant lock example. And now we'll import the lock interface. And this is the main structure of the lock mechanism and provides lock acquisition and unlock operations. So after the equals sign, we'll import the re-entrant lock class. This class implements the lock interface and allows a thread to acquire the same lock repeatedly. Now seeing this line, we create a lock of the re-entrant lock type. And this lock will be used to synchronize between threads. Now this lock cannot be changed with the final statement. It is defined only once. Now let's create a counter. Counter will be a counter that will be incremented by threads. Multiple threads will share this counter, so we use locking to securely access it. So now I'll create a method to increase the counter. Now let's just talk about this myth a little bit. The increment method increments the counter value each time it's called. However, since this operation is shared between threads, we'll use a lock. So in this line we acquire the lock using reentrant Re-entrant lock. This allows one thread to acquire the lock, and if other threads try to acquire the same lock, well, they're just going to have to wait. And let's have a look at the try and finally blocks. So after the lock is acquired, the operations to be performed in the locked section are performed in the try block. After the lock section is completed, or even if an error occurs, the unlock method is definitely called in the finally block. So the lock is released and any other thread can acquire the lock. Right. So the counter is incremented in this line. This operation can only be done by one thread, because the thread that has acquired the lock prevents others from accessing it. So in this line, the name of the currently running thread and the current counter value are printed on the screen. The name of the currently running thread is retrieved with thread dot current thread dot get name. A3. The unlock method releases a lock so that the other threads can acquire this lock and perform operations. All right, so now that this class is ready, let's create a test class. All right. So I will create an instance of the re-entrant lock example class. Now let's create a couple of threads and call the increment method of the reentrant lock example class. Now let's talk about these two lines in the first line here. See a new thread is created and when this thread runs, it will call the increment method of the reentrant lock. Example class. We give the thread a name with the second parameter thread one and then in the second line. Similarly, a second thread is created and this thread will call the increment method of the reentrant lock. Example class. The name thread two is assigned to this thread. After that, let's start with red one. So we start thread t1. When this thread runs, it will call the increment method and similarly we can start thread T2. All right. Now finally Will actually wait for the main thread to finish with the join method. So this is just ensuring that the program does not terminate before the threads finish the work. Okay. And lastly, I'll just add a throws declaration for the interrupted exception to the method signature. All right. So let's run that and see what happens. Well you can see the output thread. One counter is one thread two counters two. Now really though what's this output telling us? Thread one and thread two. Increment the counter variable in turn. Okay. So with reentrant lock two threads cannot access the counter variable at the same time, right? Therefore the value increments are properly sequential. Thread one acquires a lock with the lock method and completes its operation, then releases the lock with the unlock method. Then thread two acquires a lock and performs its operation. Yeah, so that's how you use re-entrant lock. Let's now have a look at how to use re-entrant read write lock. So we'll do an example with re-entrant read write lock. And for this example there will actually be threads that perform both read and write operations on some data. And during the write operation the data will be modified. And during the read operation the data will be read. So using re-entrant read write lock will allow multiple threads to read at the same time safely, while other threads will wait while the write operation is being performed. Now this example is going to show you how we can make, read and write operations more efficient, especially in situations where high performance is required. All right. So first let's just create a new Java class named read Write Lock. Example. Now let's just create some definitions for you. And after all of this is done, I'll explain what's happening. Okay. So now let's just talk about this a little bit in the first line. A re-entrant read write lock object is created. And this object provides more efficient locking between threads by separating read and write operations. Okay. Now in this line read lock is used only for read operations. Multiple threads can have this lock at the same time because read operations do not modify the data. Right. So in this line write lock is used for write operations. Write lock can only be held by one thread and cannot be used simultaneously with read locks. This ensures data integrity. And then in this last line this is the data to be shared right? So both read and write operations will be performed on this variable. Now let's create our read and write method. So I'll first start with the right method. And let's just have a little chat about it. So this method writes a new value to the data variable. Okay. And with the right lock dot lock line. The right lock is acquired. And this ensures that only one thread can write at a time. Other threads cannot acquire this lot. Okay, so far so good. Now with the line data. Equals value. The new value is assigned to the data variable. And with a print method, the name of the thread and the written value. Are printed to the console. And lastly we have the help of the unlock method. After the write operation is completed, the lock is released so that the other threads can acquire this lock. All right. So now let's create a read method. And we can chat about it for a moment. So this method reads a data variable, and with a lock method the read lock is acquired. More than one thread can acquire this lock at the same time, of course, and with the print method, the name of the thread and the data that's being read get printed to the screen. And again with the unlock method, the lock is released after the read operation is completed. All right, so now we've got this class ready. Let's jump to the test class. I'll convert the previous codes into a comment line. And now let's create an instance of the read write lock. Example class. Now let's create a thread for the write operation. So I want to call the right method of the read write lock. Example class. And as a parameter I'll pass the value 49. Its name will be writer thread. So now I'll create two threads for the read operation. And then after that, of course, I'll start these threads. Lastly, I will call the join method for all threads. Okay, let's run it and see. Let's have a look at the output writer thread. Wrote 49. Reader two read 49. Reader one. Read 49. You get the picture. Writer thread takes write lock and writes 49 to the data variable in while other threads readers wait. Reader one. Reader two can read data variables at the same time with read lock. Reentrant read write lock allows multiple threads to read at the same time. Now the exit order may change according to the order of threads at runtime. However, the write operation is completed before the read operations write. Okey doke my friends. This is how you use the read write lock class. I hope you got it in one go. Otherwise go back. Have a look at it again. We'll just take a short break here and we'll continue next time with a condition. Variables. All right. So I'll see you in the next video.

=== 2. Condition variables ===
Well. Hello my friends. Welcome back. So check it out. Here's the video where we're going to talk about the condition variables. Very powerful tool in Java's concurrent programming model. Now we've previously discussed reentrant lock and reentrant read write lock which allow us to manage thread synchronization more flexibly. But what if we want threads to wait for specific conditions to be met before continuing their work? That's where condition variables come into play. So what are we really talking about? A condition variable is associated with a lock. It allows threads to pause their execution or wait until they are explicitly signaled to resume. All right. So using condition variables you see we can we can make threads wait and then signal them when a specific condition is met, and this allows for more fine grained control over thread execution compared to traditional mechanisms like wait and notify and the synchronize blocks. So why don't we just dive right in and try to understand this concept with a few examples? Condition variables are created using the new condition method of the lock interface, which provides methods like await makes the current thread wait until it is signaled. Signal wakes up one waiting thread. Signal. All. Yep. Wakes up all waiting threads. So this mechanism provides better control over which thread should proceed, making it more advanced than traditional way and notify methods of the object. Why don't we just create an example? Now, to make this concept clear, we're going to create a producer consumer example. So in this scenario. a producer thread will produce items and add them to a shared queue. A consumer thread will consume items from the queue and using a condition variable, the consumer will wait if the queue is empty and the producer will signal the consumer when an item gets added. Okay, now let's create a new Java project. Let's name the project condition variables example. Now in this project I will create a Java class named Shared Queue. This class will manage the queue and use a condition variable to coordinate between producer and consumer threads. Now in this class. First I want to create a queue with integer type. Like the name of this object BQ. And after the equal sign, I'll call the constructor of the linked list class. So this is going to create a queue that stores integers. It will act as a buffer between the producer and consumer, right? Next let's define the capacity of the queue. And we'll just make the name of this variable be capacity. And I'll set it to five. So this basically ensures that the queue cannot hold more than five elements at a time. Now let's create a reentrant lock object. And this will be used to synchronize the producer and consumer threads. And the name of this will be lock. Next I want to create two condition objects, one for the producer to wait of the queues full and we'll let its name be not full. Okay, so another one is for the consumer to wait. If the queue is empty and we'll make its name not empty. So these condition objects are created using the lock object. You get that. So let's now create a method called produce. This method will allow the producer to add an item to the queue, and first just want to acquire the lock using the lock method to ensure thread safety. Then I'll create a try block. Now I'll write the necessary code quickly and I'll talk about it later. All right, so we'll break this method into smaller parts with a lock method. The producer requires the lock before modifying the queue. This ensures no other thread can access the queue at the same time with the while condition. If the queue is full, the producer will wait using the await method. The thread goes into a waiting state until another thread signals that the queue has space with the add method. The producer adds the new item to the queue and with a signal method. After adding an item, the producer signals a consumer waiting on, not empty that there is now data available to consume. And finally, with the unlock method, the lock is released, allowing other threads to acquire it. Now we've got to create a method called consume. This method will allow the consumer to remove an item from the queue. Now the logic here is similar to the reduce method, but here we need to check if the queue is empty before consuming hobby. All right, let's break this method into smaller parts with a wild condition. If the queue is empty, the consumer waits using the await method. The thread await until the producer adds an item to the queue with the poll method. The consumer removes an item from the queue with this signal method after consuming an item. The consumer signals a producer waiting on not full that there is now space in the queue. Finally, we can create a test class to demonstrate the shared queue in action. So in the main method I'll create an instance of the shared queue class. The shared queue object will be the shared resource between the producer and a consumer thread. Now both threads will use this object to interact with the queue. Okay, so now I'll create two threads. One for the producer, one for the consumer. Let's start with the producer thread. So here I created a producer thread. Let's break it down. This line creates a new thread. Inside the thread, I define a lambda function that contains the logic for the producer. With the for loop, I'll generate numbers from 1 to 10. Each number represents an item produced by the producer. Okay, next I'll call the produce method, and for each number I, the producer calls the produce method of the shared queue object, and this adds the number I to the shared queue. So the produced method may throw an interrupted exception if the thread is interrupted while waiting. All right, so here I catch the exception and re interrupt the thread to maintain proper behavior. Good good good. So now let's create the consumer thread. So here you see the consumer thread I created. Let's break it down. Now this creates a new thread inside the thread I define a lambda function that contains the logic for the consumer, and this loop runs ten times to simulate the consumer consuming ten items. The consumer calls the consume method of the shared queue object. This removes an item from the shared queue. The consume method may throw an interrupted exception if the thread is interrupted while waiting. So here I catch the exception and re interrupt the thread. All right, so now let's start the threads. This starts the producer thread. The thread runs the code inside the producer's lambda function, generating numbers and adding them to the queue. Now let's start the consumer thread. So this starts a consumer thread. The thread runs the code inside the consumers lambda function removing numbers from the queue. All right so let's run it and see. All right. What happens when we run the program. Well first the producer adds items to the cue, the producer thread runs first and adds numbers. For example, one, two, three to the shared cue, and if the cue becomes full, the producer waits using not full await. Second, the consumer removes items from the queue. The consumer thread runs and removes numbers from the shared queue. If the queue becomes empty, the consumer waits using not empty await. So as a result, the producer and consumer work together. The producer and consumer coordinate using the condition variables not full and not empty, and this ensures that the producer does not overfill the queue as well as a consumer. Does not try to consume from an empty queue. All right. Let's summarize. So in this example condition variables helped us manage thread synchronization quite efficiently. The producer waits when the queue is full and resumes. When the consumer consumes an item, the consumer waits when the queue is empty and resumes when the producer produces an item, so this ensures the program runs smoothly without any deadlocks or race conditions. Now let's review some key takeaways. Condition variables allow threads to wait and wake up based on specific conditions. So in our example, the producer and consumer communicate efficiently, ensuring the queue is neither overfilled nor emptied unnecessarily. And by using a wait and signal methods of condition, we provide a precise and flexible way to control thread behavior. All right, my friends, that's all for now. About condition variables. Why don't we just take a short break here, and I'll see you in the next video.
