=== 1. If and If-Else Statement ===
Control flow statements. Now, I promised you earlier. So in this section we're going to learn the fundamentals of Java programming language. And we're going to learn decision making statements such as if statements and switch case statements. Then we're going to have fun with looping statements such as for for each while and do while as loop statements. Then we're going to learn the branching statements such as break, continue and return decision making statements. Decision making structures have one or more conditions to be evaluated or tested by the program. So if you look at the diagram, it shows if some condition occurs, check the condition if that condition is true, execute the conditional code. If the conditional is false, pass the conditional code and then continue. Make sense? So there are two types of decision making statements in Java. They are if statements and switch statements. If statements are used to test the condition. So it'll check the boolean condition. True or false. There are various types of if statements in Java. We can classify these statements as if statements. If else statements. If else if ladder statements and a nested if statement. So why don't we take a closer look at the if statement and the if else statement syntax. First up Java if statement tests the condition. If the condition is true, it executes the if block. And then secondly, the Java if else statement also tests the condition. If the condition is true, it executes the if block. Otherwise the else block is executed. So why don't I show you some examples of the if else statement. And I will create a new package in class. So in exercise project just right click on the source folder, select new and package specify package name as decision making. Now let's create a Java class. In this package it's name will be if else statement. I'm going to add the main method in this class. So here we're going to use the scanner class for getting input from the user in Java. Now first we'll need to import the scanner class. And if you hover your mouse over the scanner word the word scanner there. Yeah. See how the import options are shown. So if we choose import scanner class in Java.util package to import the scanner class, we get a message to enter the number by using the print method. And we'll declare a variable number with the int type and assign next int as our method of scanner class to this number. So now let's start to write the if statement. In the if statement we'll check the number whether this number is even or odd. So if a number is divisible by two then it is even. Otherwise it's odd. So we'll use a modulus operator to find the remainder. If the remainder is zero, then the number is even, right? Then finally we'll close the scanner object by using the close method okay. So let's go ahead and run the code. So in the console screen we enter ten. First it'll divide the ten by two. Then it looks at the remaining number. Since the remainder is zero the if condition here is satisfied. So the condition is true and codes inside the body of if are executed. All right, let's run the code again on the console screen. This time let's enter nine. So first it divides nine by two. Then it looks at the remaining number since the remainder is one. The if condition here is not satisfied. So that means the condition is false and the codes inside the body of if are not executed. Now we can also write the condition here as. We could also change the comparison operator here from equal two to not equal two. So in this case, if the number entered by the user in the console will be divided by two and the remaining number is not zero, the if block will work. In that case we have to change the message here. So I'm writing odd here. If the remaining number is zero this time, the condition here will not be executed and the code in the if block will be skipped. Yeah. Let's test it out. So I enter nine on the console screen and first it divides a nine by two. Then it looks at the remaining number since the remainder is one. The if condition here is satisfied. So the condition is true and codes inside the body of if are executed. Okay, let's run the code again. Now on the console screen. This time let's enter ten and at first divides it ten by two. Then it looks at the remaining number, and since the remainder is zero, the if condition here is not satisfied. So the condition is false and the codes inside the body of if are not executed. In fact, why don't we go ahead and add the else statement to the code? If the condition is evaluated to be false, the else statement will be executed. So I will add a print method in the else block. The message will be number is even. So in this case, if the number entered by the user in the console will be divided by two and the remaining number is not zero. The if block will work, so the condition is true if the remaining number is zero. This time the condition will be false, and this time the if block will be skipped and the code inside the else block will be executed. Okay, let's go ahead and run the code. So on the console screen I will enter 15 and we get the number is odd message from the if statement. Okay, let's run the code again. I will enter 20. We get the number is even message from the else statement. Now let's change the condition. If I change the if condition here from the not equal to two equal two. In this case, if the number entered by the user in the console will be divided by two and the remaining number is zero. The if block will work. So the condition is true if the remaining number is one. This time the condition will be false, and this time the if block will be skipped and the code inside the else block will be executed. I'll also change the messages. This will be number is even and this message will be number is odd. All right, let's run the code on the console screen I will enter 20 and we'll get the numbers even message from the if statement. Okay, let's run the code again. I'll enter 15 and we get the number is odd message from the else statement. Hopefully that's a little bit clearer now how that if else statement works. We will do another example though because I know you're having fun already, so why quit? So I'll just create a variable of type Boolean. Boolean control equals true. Now let's check this with a if else statement. If the control is equal to true let's print control is true to the console. Else Let's print control is false to the console. Now, before you go writing this code, let's just walk through a little bit so that you can understand this about the breakpoint. So hopefully you remember we have written some code so far. And when we click the run button here our code is compiled in milliseconds. And the relevant results are printed to the console. So this process is happening so fast we can't actually see which steps the compiler runs, which steps it skips, or if there happens to be a problem in which step the problem occurs. So this is where the breakpoint comes into play. So we can control the compilation process with a breakpoint. Now although breakpoint is mostly used for debugging purposes in this particular case because you really want to learn about them. We're going to be using breakpoints just to keep track of which condition is provided by the compiler, and then which condition gets skipped. Okay, so doesn't that beg the question how to use the breakpoint? Well, first of all, why don't you just follow the steps of the compiler from which line? It's actually enough to click on this field on the left side of that line with the mouse. See what happens when you position the cursor in this area. You'll notice that a red circular shape gets formed here. And then if you notice when you click here see how it forms a dark point. So if you click on the same point again this time you will remove the breakpoint. So I'm adding a breakpoint here to follow how the compiler works from this line where we define the variable. Now let's run the code. But before you go running it, let's just convert these codes to the comment line. Okay, now we can test it. Now of course, this time we do not click on the green play icon. Right. If you've been paying attention there's actually an icon that looks like an insect or a bug. Yeah it's a debug icon. So we're going to click on the debug icon. And that'll make it use the breakpoint. Now I've already talked about the main purpose of the breakpoint is to debug. So natch. So I'll just click on the icon. If a window pops up asking if we want to allow debugging by the operating system at this stage, go ahead and confirm it. Okay. And if you notice when you click on the debug icon. The debug window, which consists of two tabs, opens at the bottom of the screen. A few select the console tab. From here you can observe the output. Also the line where we put the breakpoint. See how it's become darker now? So currently the compiler is at this step. So now let's go step by step. And for this you can actually click on the step over icon here. Or you could also use the F8 key on your keyboard. And notice the compiler goes to the next line when I click. And it also shows us the value of the control variable here. Pretty cool huh? So currently it's checking the condition inside the if statement. If the condition here is true, it'll go inside the if block. If the condition is false, it'll skip to the else block. So let's click on the step over icon one more time. And there you can see the condition was true and it went inside the if block. Let's click on the step over button once more. There you see. This time the code inside the if block gets executed control is true, gets printed to the console, and you can see that it skipped the else block. And I'll click the step over button to terminate the program. All right. Excellent. Now I also want to show you this. If the condition you are checking is boolean, you can just write the variable name here. For example, simply typing control here is the same as typing control is equal to true. So let's check that this way. So again I'm going to click on the debug icon. The compiler is currently on this line I press the F8 Currently, the compiler checks the if condition. I press the f8 key once again, and there you see, because the control variable is true, it is again in the if block. Let's press the f8 key once again. And this time it ran the code in the. If block and control is true, it's printed to the console. So now we're going to terminate the program. Okay. Now of course you can also check for false inside the if block. For this you can put an exclamation mark at the beginning of the control variable. Now if you remember this was actually the logical complement operator and it was inverting the Boolean state. Or you can also write this here. Control is not equal to true or Control is equal to false. See? All three ways are the same. Now let's continue. And notice that the value of the control variable is currently true. Here we're going to check the if control is not true condition. So if it's not true then the if block will work. If true then the else block will run right. So let's just change the expressions here. First I'm typing false here. And this will be true. Now let's run the application. I'll press F8. Now it checks a condition. If the condition is met, it will enter the if block. Otherwise it'll go to the else block. So let's press that F8 key. And there you see. This time it did not enter the if block and jump directly to the else block. Because the control variable is true. Yay! And then pressing the F8 key once again prints the statement in the else block to the console. Now I'll terminate the program. And now what do you say we set the value of the control variable to false? So in this case, the condition that the control variable is not true in the if block will be met and the if block will execute. Let's run the application and test it. I'll press F8. Condition is being checked. And here you see this time it entered the if block because the value of the check variable is false. All right, my friends, we're on a roll. Now let's do another example. Right. First, I'll convert these codes to the comment line. Let's define a variable of the type integer. Int age equals 30. Now let's create a check that consists of only if's. In the first condition. Let's check if the age is greater than ten. In this case, let's print age is greater than ten to the console. Now let's copy this condition. Let's paste it three times. Let's make the second condition 20. Third condition equal to 30. And let's print ages 30 as a message. Let's make the last condition 40. And notice that we only used if here. So each if condition is a block on its own. Right. And every block here will work. But pay attention to this. This time I'm adding a break point to this line. Good. Now let's run the application. So currently the compiler is on this line. I'll press F8 key and you can see it checks for the first condition. Since this condition is true, the statement in the first if block will be printed to the console. So let's press F8. And yeah this statement in the first if block is printed to the console. And notice that the program was not terminated. It went to the second if block. So normally if the first condition is met in the if else statement, it does not look at the else block at all. But here we just created the if condition and each if is a block by itself. So now it's going to check the second condition since this is also true. The statement in the second block is also printed to the console. Now it's moved to the third if block. This condition is also true. Pressing F8 enters this condition. Pressing F8 once again, the statement is printed to the console and the last condition is passed. And note please, the last condition is not met because the age is 30, it is less than 40. Therefore, the statement inside this condition will not be executed. Okay, so let's end the program by pressing F8 again. All right. My friends need to address one more thing before we wrap it all up. I want you to notice that we only wrote one line of code in each if block here. Surely you notice that if the code you're going to write in the if or else block consists of one line, then you cannot use curly braces. Although this leads to complexity, it's very useful to know that there is such a use. So let's just remove all the curly brackets here. Now write the expression inside the block, either right next to the condition or just on a sub line. Doesn't matter. But only a single line is evaluated in the corresponding block. So if I create a second line here, it will not be evaluated in the if block. Therefore, I will rewrite the expression in the last condition. You see what's going on here? If this line is accepted in the if block, it should not be printed to the console Answer because if condition here is not met, if not accepted in the if block, then this statement should also be printed on the console. So let's run it and see. I will not put a breakpoint this time. I'll just run it directly. And there you see the relevant statements are printed even though we don't use any of those curly braces. It also printed the statement in the last line, because only the first line after the if condition is considered defined inside the if block. The other line is considered outside the if block. Therefore, the last line is also printed. If the last line was accepted in the. If block would not be able to see this statement in the console, right? So there is a whirlwind through the world of if else statements. So we're going to take a short break. I'll see you next time.

=== 2. Ternary Operator ===
Well. Hello. Welcome back. All right. So check it out. In the previous video we learned the usage of the if else statement in Java. But before we go moving on to nested if statements. Oh yeah. It gets better. Deeper way, way more fun. All right. We need to talk a little bit about an operator that actually simplifies the writing of the if else statement. And we actually briefly touched on before the ternary operator. So you remember we mentioned the ternary operator in the operations section. But in this video we're going to take a closer look at the ternary operator. So we're going to first have a look and see just what the ternary operator is. So this operator is the conditional operator and it's represented by this symbol question mark colon. Now, this operator consists of three operands and is used to evaluate Boolean expressions. So this operator can also be thought of as shorthand for an if else statement. That's right. So thanks to the ternary operator we can make a simple conditional statement in one line. So I want to compare it with the if else statement just for some better understanding. So you see the if else statement if the condition checked in the parenthesis was true. The codes in the if block get executed right. Now if the condition does happen to be false while the code in the else block executes, let's have a look at the equivalent of this if else statement in the ternary operator. So first the condition gets checked. If the condition is true, the statement after the question mark works. If the condition is false, the statement after the colon works. Starting to make sense, huh? So why don't we just do a few examples with a ternary operator? So in our exercise project, just right click on the decision making package and select New and Java class. Good. So let's specify the class name ternary operator. Also don't forget about the main method. Okay. So first off I want to create one integer and one string variable int score equals 80. And string result. But I will not initialize the result variable. Yeah I'm going to initialize that soon. Let's just now create an if else statement. If score greater than 50. Result equals double quotes. You passed the exam. Else result equals double quotes. You failed the exam. And outside the if else block, I will print the result to the console. Now let's have a look at the code. So the value of score is 80. Since 80 is greater than 50. The condition is true. So for this reason the if block will be executed so that you pass the exam expression will be printed on the console. Let's run the code. And there you see the output is you pass the exam. But don't let's get too excited yet. Let's just try it just by writing with the ternary operator. So I'll first convert the if else statement to the comment line. Very useful. Okay, now let's use the ternary operator. Result equals. After the equals I will write the condition. So score is greater than 50. I'll put in a question mark. Now I'll write the code inside the if block. So the code is you pass the exam and I'll just put in a colon. And lastly I will write the code in the else block. Now let's examine it. So you see first it's going to check the condition. So the condition is score that is 80 is greater than 50. So the condition is true. And since the condition is true the code after the question mark will be executed. And this statement will be assigned to the result variable. So the result variable will be you pass the exam. Right. Let's run it and see. And look at that. The output is you pass the exam. So now let's see what happens when we change the score to 40. Yeah. So now the value of the score variable is 40 and 40 is not greater than 50. So the condition is false. And since the condition is false this time the code after the colon will be executed. So the result will be you failed the exam. And now let's run it and see. There you can see you fail the exam. Don't even think about it. So I think it's a bit clearer. Right. How to use that ternary operator. But I want to also do an example that requires just a little bit more care. So let's create two int variables. First a and assign ten. Second B and assign nine. Now let's create a condition with a ternary operator. Int c equals a is equal to b. Question mark A plus sign colon b minus minus. And lastly we'll print these variable s out double quotes a equal plus a. And I'll duplicate this print method twice. So this one will be b. And this one will be c. All right let's examine the code. So it's going to first check the condition. So the A is not equal to B because ten is not equal to nine. So the condition is false since the condition is false. The code after the colon will be executed. And this is the decrement operator, and it's used as a suffix, not a prefix. So it will work after the value b is assigned to c. So the value of c is nine. And then lastly, of course the value of the b variable will decrease by one. So b will be eight. And then finally we'll have a look at the value of a. Since the condition is false, the code after the question mark will not run at all, so the value of A will remain the same. Now pay attention to this. In other words, the value of A will still be ten. All right, well let's run it and check it out. All right. So there you see A is ten B is eight and C is nine. So there you have it my friends the ternary operator. So we're going to take a short break here. Stick around though I'll see you in the next video.

=== 3. If-Else - If Ladder Statement, Nested If Statement ===
All right, so I hope you feel like we're getting somewhere because we are. Let's have a closer look now at the if else if ladder statement, as well as the nested if statement syntax. So first the Java if else if ladder statement executes one condition from multiple statements. And then secondly the nested if statement represents the if block within another if block. So here the inner if block condition executes only when the outer if block condition is true. All right. So let's stop talking and do up some examples with the if ladder and nested if statements in the exercise project. Right click on the decision making package and select new class. Specify the class name as if latter nested if statement. Now first we'll need to import the scanner class for getting that input from the user. Right. And now we get a message to enter age by using the print method. So let's declare a variable your age with the int type and assign the next int method of scanner class to this variable. Now let's start to write the if statement. If your age is less than 13 then will print you are a child to the output. Else if your age is less than 19 then we will print. You are a teenager to the output. If your age is greater than 19, else statement is executed and we will print you are a an adult to the output. So if all test conditions are false, the codes inside the body of the else statement is executed. Right. Okay, so let's run the code. On the console screen we enter eight. Eight being less than 13. So the first if statement is executed and the output is you are a child. Now I just wonder if you happen to notice it's provided in the condition we checked in. The second condition that is eight is less than 19, but since the first condition is satisfied, it does not deal with the other conditions, right? So if this was just if instead of else if then it would also check for other conditions because the if was a block by itself. Right. So we examine this actually and explained it in our previous lesson. But I do want to just reiterate that point. And we can now continue. Let's run the code again and we'll enter 15. The program checks first. The if statement 15 is less than 13. So the first if statement is not executed right. The second if statement is checked 15 is less than 19. So yes, this condition is true. And the statement is executed. So the output is you are a teenager. So let's run the code again and let's enter 45. The program checks the first if statement 45 is greater than 13. So that condition is false. Then it checks the second if statement 45 is greater than 19. So the condition is false, then the else statement is executed. So the output is you are an adult. Now let's add a nested if statement into the else statement. If your age is less than 65, then we will print. You are an adult. To output. And then when we add the else statement, that means that if your age is greater than 65, we will print out you are a senior to the output. Okay, so now let's run the code. And in the console screen we'll enter 56. Else statement is executed because 56 is greater than 13 and 19. And the else statement 56 is less than 65. So the if statement is executed and the output is you are an adult. All right. So let's run the code again. Let's enter 68 in the L statement. 68 is greater than 65. So the L statement is executed. And the output is you are a senior. So we're going to write a Java program to find the largest of three numbers and implement a nested if statement. All right. So first I want to just convert all this code to the comment line. And again I'll use a scanner class for getting input from users. Now also we've got to declare four variables. Let's make their names number one, number two, number three and largest number with the int type. So now we're going to show a message to the user to enter the first number by using the Printline method. And I will also write the purpose of this app to the user. So I write this app finds the largest number. All right. So after the reverse slash in N I'll write. Please enter the first number. Yeah. You might know it as backslash reverse slash. Same thing. So this reverse slash n is actually a common escape character in Java. With a reverse slash n, the cursor will automatically move to the next line, and the statement after the reverse slash n will be printed on the next line. So you can actually write a string expression one after the other in the same print method. Pretty cool. Now let's continue. So I want to assign the next int methods of the scanner class to this number one variable number one equals number dot next int. And after that let's just show a second message to the user to get the second number. Please enter the second number. And I'll assign the next int methods of scanner class to the number two variable. Number two equals number dot nextint. Now after that let's just go ahead and show a third message to the user to get the third number. You see what's happening right. And I will assign the next int methods of scanner class to the number three variable. Number three equals number dot nextint. Okay. Now let's get into this if statement. If number one is greater than or equal to number two. This is outer if. So if we add the nested if statement. If number one is greater than or equal to number three. Then assign number one to the largest number. Else assign number three to the largest number. Okay, so let's continue with the outer else statement. So we add nested if statement again. If number two is greater than or equal to number three. Then assign number two to the largest number. Else a sign. Number three to the largest number. All right. So let's print the largest number to the output by using our print method. And then finally we'll have to close up the scanner object by using the close method. Okay. So let's run the code. Now on the console screen we'll enter six, five and 12. So our program checks the outer if block first six is greater than five. The condition is true. So the outer if block is executed. And then in the outer. If the program checks the inner. If six is less than 12, the condition is false. So the inner if is not executed and the else statement is executed. You with me. And then 12 is printed out as the largest number. All right. So let's run the code and enter different numbers such as minus two one zero. Largest number is obviously one. Now throughout this video, of course we've done enough examples to understand if statements. And just to make it clear, go ahead and do some more exercises. You can even go back and do these ones again. Remember you can also use the break point if you want. We talked about the break point previously a couple of videos ago. So what we'll do here is just take a short break. We'll continue in the next video. So my friends, I'll see you on the other side.

=== 4. Switch-Case Statement ===
All right, my friends. Hello and welcome back. So we're going to continue to examine decision making statements. So in this video we're going to learn how to use switch case statements and actually understand how to control the flow of our program's execution. Stay tuned. Here we go. The switch case statement executes one statement from multiple conditions. So it's like an if else if ladder statement that you learned in the previous lecture. But the switch case statement works with primitive data types such as byte, short, int, and long. Remember those? So it also works with strings as well as enum types that we're going to get to in the in the following lectures. So I have a look at this diagram. The switch case statement starts with a switch keyword and a conditional expression between brackets. so if case condition one is true. Code block one is executed. If case condition one is false and case condition two is true. Code block two is executed. Right. So if case condition one is false and case condition two is false. If case condition N is true, then code block N is executed. Right. So if all case conditions are false, the default code is executed. Now there are a few important points to remember when we use this switch statement. There can be one or n number of case values for switch expression if you remember your simple algebra. Now the case value must be of a switch expression type only. All right. The case value must be literal or constant. We cannot use variables. It's also one of the new features added in Java seven is the capability to switch on a string. So the case values must be unique, otherwise a compile time error will happen. So each case statement can have a break statement. So break statement is not actually mandatory. It's optional. But the break statement means to terminate the flow and exit the switch block after the relevant condition is met. So if you don't use the break keyword, you'll not get an error, but the program will continue until it encounters a break or until the end of the switch block. That's something to keep in the back of your mind. As a result, when control reaches the break statement, it jumps a control after the switch expression. So if a break statement is not found, it executes the next case. All right. Glad we had this little chat. Why don't we just go ahead and move on to IntelliJ and do some practice exercises? So go into the exercise project. Right click on Decision Making package and select new Class. Specify class name as switch case statement. Right now we're going to make just a simple example. And that'll explain the switch case statement I think better than words. So we're going to enter a number in the console. And as a result it's going to give us the day of the week corresponding to that number. Okay. Um why don't we get started. So first off we're going to need to import the scanner class for getting input from the user. Now we do get a message to enter a day number of the week by using the print method. And we'll declare a variable day number with the in type and assign Nextint as our method of the scanner class to this variable. Now let's declare a variable day with a string type. So now we can start to write a switch case statement or a conditional switch expression is day number. So in the first case we'll assign Monday to variable day. And use the break keyword. All right. So let's copy the code and make some changes for case values and other days of the week. Now we can also use the break keyword in each case condition, because we don't want to execute each case condition, right. So we have seven days in a week. So if the user enters a number that is greater than seven, we should warn the user by using this default keyword. So in the default part, we'll assign invalid date choice to the variable day. And let's display the value of day by using the print method. Also remember to close the scanner object by using the close method. Okay so let's run the code and we'll enter three for a day number of the week. Case condition three is executed and day is Wednesday is the message that we have displayed. So let's run the code again and enter five. Case condition five is executed and day is Friday. Is the message that we have displayed. Okey doke. Finally, let's run the code and enter eight. And the default part of the switch statement is executed and invalid date choice is the message we have displayed. All right. So what do you say. That's how the switch case statement works. Now let's just convert the last three break keywords to the comment line. And you'll be able to see the difference. So oh you know what. Also I'll cut this print method and paste it into the fifth, sixth and seventh cases. Otherwise the last value of the day string always will be invalid choice because lastly the default case will run right? Alrighty then. Now if I enter six to the console, last three messages will be displayed on the console because after the sixth case there is no break keyword and the compiler doesn't exit from the switch case statement until the end of the code, that's how it should work. Let's run it and see. So I'll enter six. And there you see the last three cases do get executed because there's no break keyword. So I'll just delete these comment lines. Let's run the code again. Now what happens if I enter six. As you can see, this time only the sixth case was executed. And that, my friends, is the difference. Now, you might be wondering when do you use or when do you not use the break keyword? I'll tell you. You really want to know, huh? Okay, if there is a situation where we want it to give the same result in more than one situation, it might actually just be more logical not to use the default keyword here. For example, if the number entered by the user corresponds to a weekday, let's print weekday in the console. If it corresponds to the weekend, let's print the weekend this time. And let's turn all these codes here into comments. Now let's create the switch case statement and I will check the day number again. This time the first, second, third, fourth and fifth cases must return the same result. You follow. For this reason, I will not use the break keyword for each case, and I will assign the result to the day string only once. So I create. Case one. Colon. Case two colon. Case three colon. You can also write the cases like that. Case four. Colon. Case five. Now let's assign the weekday to the day string. Now we'll use the break keyword here. Now let's check the sixth and seventh cases. Case six colon. Case seven colon. Now let's assign the weekend to the day string. Now we'll use the break keyword here. And lastly I'll use the default case. Then I'll assign the invalid date choice to the day string. Also I will use the break keyword here. And let's print the result to the console. Yeah. So now let's run it and test her out. I will enter three. So the result is weekday. I'll run it again. Enter five. The result is the same. I'll run it again and enter six this time. And the result is the weekend. So I'll run it again. Enter seven this time. And the result is the weekend. Lastly, I will enter ten. So this time the default case was executed and the result is invalid choice. You see how that's working. So I do want to show you one other thing. Before we wrap this up, let's also see if we can use the if else statement inside the switch case. Yeah we're living large now. So for example if the user enters three let's show this message weekday Wednesday. Else weekday. Other days. Let's run that and see. Enter three. So the if block was executed and the result is weekday Wednesday. So let me run the app again. This time I'll enter one. There you go. This time the output is weekday. Other days. So you see how you can continue with that. Go ahead and play around with it. It's lots of fun. That is how you use the switch case statement. All right. Naturally, that'll be useful for you. When you get really used to it. You'll be able to figure out all kinds of ways to use it on your own. So why don't we just wrap it up here? Stick around though. I'll see you in the next video.

=== 5. Simple Calculator App with Switch Statement ===
So sure enough, we're at the point where we're going to do our first project. Are you ready? It's a simple calculator, but it is built on everything we learned, and also gives you an idea of some of the power of this language. So a calculator is pretty much one of the first things a programmer will learn how to build. And their introduction to coding our calculator will be just doing some basic arithmetic operations addition, subtraction, division, multiplication, as well as modulus. So first let's create a new Java project. And specify the project name and we'll call it calculator. The Java version will be Java 21. Now I don't want you to go around changing any of the other options. Just go ahead and click the create button. Okay. So in this project just right click on the source folder and select new and package. Specify package. Name. Calculator. Now let's just create a new Java class in this package. The class name will be calculator. Lastly, I'll add the main method. Now, as you may recall or know, calculators take inputs from users and it makes a calculation right. So that means we need to take inputs from the user by using the scanner class. And in the first print method we'll write a title for the program output. And let's call it calculator all uppercase. And we get a message to enter two numbers using the print method. So we'll declare two variables. Number one and number two with the int type, and assign Nextint as our method of scanner class to these variables. Okay, so we show a message to be chosen in an operation. Now the user may enter one of the plus minus asterisk, forward slash and percent mark symbols. Now what do we need to do? Declare a char type operator, which will signify the operation that we want to perform, and assign the first element in the chariot method of the next method of scanner class to this variable. So then after the equal sign, I'll write input.next dot char at zero. So the char at method gets used for taking a character input in Java. So if the user enters two or well, many operators in the same line, it's going to deal with only the first operator. If I change the value to one, it will deal with the second operator. You follow. And we need to declare a variable result with the double type. Its initial value is 0.0. Okay, so if you're with me so far, let's start to write our switch case statement. Now the switch receives the operator variable and depending upon what it is, chooses a certain case. The first case value is additive operator in a single quotation mark. So we'll do the addition of two numbers. We'll assign number one plus number two to the variable result. And we'll want to use the break keyword. So let's copy the code and make the changes for the case values and other arithmetic operations. Right. And now we'll use the subtraction operator. Multiplication operator. Division operator. And modulus operator. So we have five operators. Now if the user enters anything except these five operators. We should warn the user in the default code block. So in the default part, we'll display invalid choice operator as our message to the user by using the print method. So now let's display number one operator number two and the value of the result by using the print method. Now it's better to close the scanner object by using the close method. Okay. So let's run the code. So we'll enter 12 and 13 for our two numbers. And then we'll choose the additive operator. Result is 12 plus 13 equals 25.0. Da da da da. Okay so let's run the code again. We'll enter 12 and seven. And let's choose the subtraction operator. Result is 12 minus seven equals 5.0. Okay. Let's run the code again. We'll enter 13 and three. And let's choose the multiplication operator. The result is 13 multiplied by three equals 39.0. So far so good. So let's run the code again and we enter 15 and five. So now let's choose the division operator resulting in 15 divided by five equals 3.0. Alrighty then. So let's run the code and we'll enter eight and five. So now let's choose the modulus operator resulting in 8% of five equals 3.0. Okey doke. And finally let's run the code and we'll enter. I don't know 12 and four. And we'll choose the illegal operator. Result is invalid operator choice. So this message is true. But also we get 12 illegal operator four equals zero. So this is actually a wrong message to the user. The user shouldn't see this statement. So in order to solve this problem, instead of using a break keyword, we'll use the return keyword in the default code block. You got it. So the return keyword is used to exit the current method. The break keyword is used to exit a switch statement. All right. Return keyword. Exit the current method. Break exit. A switch statement. Cool. So we're going to use the return keyword in the next few exercises. So let's go ahead and run the code again. And we'll enter 12 and four and choose an illegal operator. And sure enough we get only the invalid operator choice message. Good job. We finished our first project quite successfully. So again congratulations. This is a big step. All right. So we'll take a short break. And when we come back in the next video we'll continue. See you then.

=== 6. For Loops ===
All right, my friends, we've learned all kinds of things about decision making statements in the previous videos. With this video, let's have a look at looping statements. So when you need to execute a block of code a whole bunch of times we use looping statements. So first off we're going to learn how to use the for loop in Java. The for loop is a control flow statement that iterates a part of the program multiple times. So the general form of the for statement can be expressed like you see here in the slide. Initialization declares the initial value of the controlling variable. The controlling variable can be defined in line with the for loop or defined previously. Typically the for loop uses an integer variable. The condition is a Boolean expression. So in other words, it must result in either a true or false output. If the condition is true, the loop continues to execute. Relational operators are what's used in the Boolean expression. So after each execution of the statements, the control variable is updated according to increment or decrement. When you're creating a for loop, there is no need to write the update statement in the for parentheses. You can also write it in the loop body if your eyes are still open. You're looking at an example of this. See for. Loops created in this way are also valid. Okay, Also you'll see here on the slide the for loop execution flow. The first step in for loop the initialization part only executes once. The second step condition in the for loop is evaluated on each iteration. So if the condition is true, then the loop body gets executed. If the condition returns false, statements in the loop body do not execute and the control gets transferred to the next statement in the program after the for loop. Third step after each execution of the for loops body, the increment decrement part of the for loop updates the value of the controlling variable, and then the last step after the third step, the control jumps to the second step and the condition is re-evaluated. You'll see why in a minute. So let's do up some examples with the for loop. So first let's just close the calculator project and open the exercise project. In Exercise project right click on the source folder and select New and Package. Specify the package name as loop. Let's create a new Java class in this package shall we specify the class name as for loop. Lastly, the main method. So let's start to write a program that prints int numbers from 1 to 10 by using the for loop. So we'll declare a variable I. We initialize this variable in for loop. Our condition is I less than or equal to ten and it increments by one. And we can use a print method to write our numbers to our screen. All right. So let's run the code. And you see the numbers from 1 to 10. So here the variable I is declared and initialized to one. Then the test condition is evaluated. And if this condition is true the body of the for loop is executed and prints one on the screen. Then the update expression I plus plus is executed. Now the value of AI is increased to two and again the test condition is evaluated. Two is less than ten. So the condition is true and the body of the for loop is executed and then prints two on the screen. You with me? The iteration process runs until I is 11 when I is 11. Since 11 is greater than ten, the test condition is false and the for loop terminates. So you can change this increment like that plus plus I and it's valid. Go ahead and run it and see. As you can see the result is the same. You could also write the increment like this I plus equal one. That's also valid. Go ahead run it and see. See how the result is the same. Now let's print the last value of the I variable outside the for loop. I write out last value of I. Equals plus I. Now let's run the code again. And there you see the last value of the I variable is 11. I wonder if you notice we declared the I variable outside the for loop. So if we initialize it like this int I equals one. This time we get a compilation error. Yeah. Because we declare the variable in the for loop. We can only use it inside the for loop. Now that's actually going to get an entire subject of its own. It's called scope. We're going to talk about that in greater detail In one of the future videos, but for now, just let it go. Let's write another program. First, let's turn these codes into the comment line. So now let's write a program to find the sum of the numbers from 1 to 5. We'll declare a valuable sum with the initial value zero. So in the for loop we can use variable k. And we'll declare and initialize variable k with the zero value. So our test condition is k is less than or equal to five and it increments by one. And then we assign the sum plus k to the variable sum with the add and assignment operator. So the value of k is increased until k is greater than five. All right. So let's print the value of k in the for loop by using our print method. And then finally we'll use the print method after for loop to display the sum of numbers. Okay. So let's run the code. And you see the values of ki and sum of numbers is 15. All right then. So let's write a program to find the sum of even numbers from 1 to 10. So just go back and copy the previous code. And now make changes for the test condition and the increment decrement part test condition is ten and k increments by two. So the variable k is always an even number. And then finally we'll use the print method after the for loop to display the sum of the even numbers. Okay, so let's run the code. Now you see the values of the key and the sum of even numbers, which is 30. And let's now look at another example. So I want to convert these codes to the comment line. Yes. So now we can declare and initialize two variables in the for loop. For example let's create a for loop. For int a equals zero. And B equals one. And I'll create a condition using these variables. A less than and equal to five. And operator B less than 11. And the increment part a plus plus b plus plus. Now inside the loop I will print the A and B values. And I will add a print method to separating each iteration. All right. So let's run that and see. Now you see A and B are printed until it comes to number five. After this step the new value of a is six and the condition is false for the variable a. So since the operator of the condition is the and operator, the result value of this condition is false and the loop is therefore terminated. Now I wonder also, did you notice the type of a and b is the same? If you were to use a different data type here, you'd get a compilation error. Gotta remember that. Okay, now let's have a look at a nested for loop so we can create for loops one inside the other. Okay nested. And let's just do an example. So first let's just turn all of this into our comment line. And okay so first I'll need to create the outer for loop for int x equals one. X less than four. X plus plus. Now inside this loop I'll create another for loop. For int y equals zero y less than or equal to five y plus plus. Now let's write the code here. I will print the value of x and y using the print method. I'll add another print method. Now I'll separate each iteration. And now let's also just guess before you run it, how many times the codes here will be run in total. Let's break it down. The outer loop will execute three times because the starting value is one, and the last value to be executed will be three. So the codes in the outer block will be run three times total. Right? So every time the outer loop runs, the inner loop will run six times because the starting value is zero and the last value to be executed will be five. So the codes in the inner block will be run 18 times in total. You get it. Now let's observe this in the console. So for this I do want to create a new variable outside of the loops. Int counter equals zero. Now let's increase this value of the counter by one in the inner loop and print it to the console. S out double quotes loop number. Equals plus. And lastly plus plus counter. Now you see how this increases the value of the counter and then prints the updated value. If you use the increment operator as a suffix, though, instead of a prefix, the value of the counter is first printed to the console, and then the value of the counter is incremented by one. So in this case, you will print the value of the counter as zero in the first loop. That is why, my friends, we're using the increment operator as a prefix. All right, let's go ahead and run it and see what happens. So you can see here right. The codes were run 18 times. Now before I let you go I do need to mention one last thing. You got to notice that we've always created a for loop here according to a particular condition. And when the condition is not met, the loop ends. But we can also create an infinite or endless loop if we wanted to. Now, while it's mostly the subject of the do while loop, which will also see later, you can also create infinity loops with the for loop. I'll show you a quick example. Now let's create a for loop. So if you put double semicolon inside the parentheses it means an infinite loop. So for example, let's print Hello World to the console and let's run the code. And as you can see, Hello World is printing to the console forever and ever until we terminate the program. Let's go ahead and terminate it. So that is the for loop in Java. Oh, look at the time would ya. Let's go ahead and take a short break. But I'll see you in the next video.

=== 7. Enhanced For Loop (For-Each Loop) ===
For each loop. So in Java, the for each loop is another form of a for loop to work with arrays and collections. So we can say that it is an enhanced form of the for loop. You'll see what I mean. The use of the enhanced for loop is easier to write, and it makes your code more readable. So if you look at the syntax here, first we declare an array with initial values. And then we use the for each loop. So instead of an array we can also use lists in for parentheses. The first element is a single item from the array, and the second item is the list of an array. Colon is used between them. Please note here that if you do want to use the index of the element inside the loop, you have to use the for loops and you cannot use the for each loops. So in our example it'll iterate through each element in the numbers variable, storing it in the number variable and executing the loop body. So let's have a look and see how that works. We'll do up a few examples with the. For each loop in the exercise project, right click on the loop package and select New Class and specify the class name as for each loop. Now first we'll do an example to iterate through elements of an array using the standard for loop. So let's declare a char array. Its name will be letters. And its initial value. Let's call it h e, l l and o. Now let's start to write the for loop. In for loop we can use the variable I and we'll declare and initialize variable I with a value of zero. And our test condition is I less than length of array letters. And we'll increase the value of I by one. So let's print the elements of the array by using the index in the print method. All right. So let's run the code. And you see there the elements of the array in the console. Now we can perform the same example using a for each loop. So now let's copy the declaration part of the array from the previous code and convert this code to the comment line. Let's go ahead and start to write for each loop. So in the for parentheses first we'll declare a variable item with chart type because the type of the letters array is char. So the data type should also be char. It's got to be the same. Okay. So now we'll add a colon. And after the colon let's write the name of the array that is letters. And let's add the variable item into the print method S out item. All right let's run the code. Now you see the Elements of Letters array in the console so you can see the difference between the loops, right? In the for each loop, the code has reduced significantly. Also, we don't use the index and counter in the for each loop. So now let's expand in our example. Let's take a closer look at how the for each loop works. The for each loop iterates through each item in a given letters array, and it stores each item in the variable item and then executes the body of the loop. So let's do another example by using the for each loop. We'll write a program to calculate the sum of all elements of an integer array. Let's declare an integer array and call it numbers with initial values six, four, three, and five. And then we'll declare a variable. Some initial value is zero. In for parentheses we declare a variable num with int type and we add a colon and numbers array. Now we assign a sum plus num to the variable sum with add and assignment operator. So let's print the value of the num in the for loop by using the print method. And then finally we'll use the print method after the for loop to display the sum of the numbers. All right so let's run the code. And you see the values of the num and some of the numbers is 18. All right. That's very nice. I want you to notice, though, that we always use the for each loop with arrays. But now I want to show you something a little bit different. First of all let's turn the codes here into comments again. And now let's define a string variable named movie. Let's assign the word Titanic to this variable. Now let's create a foreach loop that will print the letters of the word Titanic to the console in order. Okay, notice that inside the for parentheses, we first had to create a variable of the same type as the array. But movie is a variable, not an array. So how would you define it. All right so this word Titanic which is actually a string expression is formed by combining letters, right? T I t a n I c. So in other words, we can think of the string as an array of letters. So here we can use the char data type that represents each letter. So that's why I'm writing char each letter right in here. Then after the colon we need to write the array again. But the movie we have is a string not an array. So what would we do. Well here I'll write movie dot two. Now, if you notice, the code editor offers us some methods and there happens to be a method named to char array. And when we look at the description of this method, it says that this method will convert a string to a character array. So in other words, if we use this method, we actually will write an array with a char data type here. That's why I'm writing movie to char array here. Good good good. So now let's print the letters of Titanic in the loop, so I'll write s out each letter. Now let's run the code. All right, so as you can see, we have printed the letters of the word Titanic to the console using a for each loop. Congratulations. Now, of course, if we were to use print instead of println here, the letters would be printed side by side, not one under the other, right? Did you think of that? I hope so. Let's run it one more time and see. Now we see the word Titanic in the console. All right. So we can actually think of a string as an array of char. And then put it in a for each loop. Now we're going to talk more about strings in the string section. I just wanted to mention this here whets the appetite a little bit. All right. So there you go. Usage of the for each loop in Java. We're going to take a short break here. And I'll see you in the next video.

=== 8. While Loop ===
All right. Hello, everybody. Welcome, welcome. Because in this video we are going to explore the while loop in the Java programming language. So wait a minute. What is that a wild loop. No no no this is the while loop. The while loop is used to repeat a specific code block as long as a certain condition is satisfied. Yes. I want to have a look at the working principle of the while loop, so that we don't get too confused here in the while loop. First of all, we define the controlling variable. Then a condition statement is created for the code block to run. Then this condition statement is checked and if this condition statement is satisfied, the code block within the while loop executes. All right. So generally the loop body contains an update value for the variable being processed for the next iteration. So after executing the code block, the condition is checked again. If the condition is still true, the code block is executed again, and then this process will continue until the condition becomes false. Then if the condition returns false, the control comes out of the loop and jumps to the next statement after the while loop. All right, so that's the theory. Let's do some practice. So let's just create a new class called while loop. In the loop package in the exercise project. So here I will create a variable and x equals zero. Now I get to create a while loop. So in parentheses I have to specify the loop condition. Let the loop condition be x less than six. So our goal is to print x values to the console until this condition is met. So in the loop I will print the value of x to the console. Now we should update the value of the x. So I will increase the value of x by one. Okay, that makes the while loop ready. Now before running the app let's just have a look at this while loop. So in the beginning the value of x is zero. The condition is true because zero is less than six. So the loop body will execute. And the first number that we should see in the console will be zero. Then the increment operator will evaluate here. And the new value of x will be one. And now that that first iteration is finished, it begins the second iteration. The new value of x is one, and one is less than six. So the condition is true. The loop body will be evaluated again. And just like that, the loop will continue until the value of x is six. If x is equal to six, the condition will be false because six is not less than six. So the loop will not evaluate this time and the compiler will continue after the loop body. All right. So that's what should happen. Let's just run it and have a look at the output. All right. So you see the numbers 01234 and five. So there you go. That is how the while loop works. What do you want to make another example though. Let's create a string array named animals. We'll let the elements of this array be cat, dog, horse and cow. Well, that's pretty much all the animals I know. But now let's print the elements of this array to the console using the while loop. So I'll first create a variable called I and assign zero. I'll create the while loop now. And the condition will look like this. I is less than the length of the animals array. Okay, so in the loop body I will print each element of the animals array with its index number s out. Double quotes. Animals. Open square bracket plus I plus double quotes again and close the square bracket. Equals plus animals square brackets I. So this will print the index number and the elements of the array. Then I'll increase the I by one. All right. So before we run it we'll examine it. So here at the beginning the value of I is zero. The length of the array is four. So the condition is true because zero is less than four. So the loop body will execute since the I is zero. We will see the first element of the array that is cat on the console. Then the increment operator will evaluate and the new value of I will be one. And now the first iteration will finish and it begins the second iteration. The new value of I is one and one is less than four. So the condition is true. The loop body will be reevaluated, and the second element of the array will be printed to the console. And just like that, the loop will continue until the value of I is four. So if I is equal to four the condition will be false because four is not less than four. So the loop will not evaluate this time and the compiler will continue after the loop body. So let's run it and see. Yeah. So there you see the elements of the array are printed to the console respectively. Now I do want to do another practice example with the while loop. I wonder if you remember factorials in mathematics. So well just quickly why don't we have a look at how to calculate the factorial of a number with a while loop? And I'll just turn these codes into the command line. Now first you got to remember what the factorial is. So I'll just run it through in mathematics, right? The factorial of a non-negative integer n, denoted by an n and an exclamation mark, is the product of all positive integers less than or equal to n. So, for example, when calculating the factorial of three, we multiply three, two, and one. So we can say that the factorial of three is six. Or when calculating the factorial of five, we multiply the numbers five, four, three, two, and one. And then we say that the factorial of five is 120. All right, so that's enough of a review. Why don't we write a program though, to calculate the factorial of the entered number that the user will enter? Imaginary user of course. So first let's create an object from the scanner class to take an input. Now let's print. Please enter a number message to the console. So now I'll take that user input and assign it to a new variable. So first I'll check the number with the if else statement. If the number is less than zero. So if it is negative, I should point out to the user that the factorial of negative numbers is undefined. In the if block, I'll write s out number plus double quotes. Exclamation mark is undefined. So why don't we just test it at this stage? So you can see what it looks like. I'm just going to enter minus three. Yeah. So here you see the output says minus three. Factorial is undefined okay. As expected. So that's the first step. Now I want to add an else if statement. So if the number is zero or number is one the result will be one directly right. So for this there's no need for calculation right. So I'll just copy this print method. I'll paste it into the else if block. I will edit the print method now. I'll put an equal sign after the exclamation mark and a plus one. Let's test it again. So I'll enter zero. And here you see the factorial of the number zero is one. So this time I'll enter one. And there you see the factorial is one again. So far so good right. Well let's create the else block. So in the else block first I'll create a new variable to hold the result long. Result equals one. Now I will create the while loop. The condition will be the number is greater than zero. So in the loop I will assign result multiply number to the variable result with the multiply and assignment. Operator. All right. And then lastly, I will decrease the value of the number variable by one. See this way, as long as the number variable is greater than zero, the value of the number variable will be multiplied by the value of the result variable and then transferred to the result variable. The loop will also terminate when the number variable becomes zero. So then outside the loop we will print the result to the console. So now I just need to copy this print method. Paste it outside the loop. This will be the result. But since the number variable is zero now we really should write the initial value of the number variable here. So before the loop I will assign it to a new variable and it looks like this. Int entered number equals number. Now I'll use this entered number variable in the print method. All right. So lastly I will close the scanner with a close method. And that just makes the program more efficient. All right so let's run it and test it out. See what it looks like. What does it return. So I'm going to enter three. The factorial of three is six. I'll run the program again. I'll enter five. Five factorial is 120. So far so good. I think it's working. So you see what's going on here, my friends? I mean, that's enough examples of the while loop. You can create your own, but we're going to take a short break. And when we come back, well let me just leave you hanging, but we will be back. I'll see you in the next video.

=== 9. Infinite Loop ===
All right my friends. Welcome back. So in that previous video we talked about the while loop. And we hopefully understood a little bit better about this while loop with a few different examples. So we need to expand a little bit and we'll talk about a different topic here related to the while loop. It's the infinite loop also known as the endless loop. So then wow, sounds intriguing. What is the infinite loop? So yeah, an infinite loop in Java is actually a loop that continues to execute indefinitely, never ever terminating under normal circumstances. Now, there are various ways to create an infinite loop in Java, but one common approach is to use a while loop with a condition that is always going to be true. So you can actually see an example of that right up here on the screen. Now where are we going to use that? When's that going to be useful. It just seems like it's interminable. Well, let's have a look. So in while loops, the iteration persists until the specified condition is satisfied, causing the loop to conclude. And you remember, in our previous video, we applied conditions to guide the loop, often incorporating increment or decrement operations at the loops. Conclusion. However, what if we encounter a scenario where the loops duration is uncertain? So we'll just illustrate that concept with an example picture, if you will, a scenario where you are tasked with creating a number guessing application. Now essentially the computer generates a random number within a specified range, and then the user gets prompted to guess the correct number. The user fails to accurately guess the randomly generated number. They're continually prompted to enter new guesses. Consequently, an infinite loop ensues until the user successfully guesses the correct number, at which point the loop terminates. But see. Therefore, when there is a need for a piece of code to execute continuously, infinite loops become a valuable tool. Yeah, so that's the theory, but I know you can't wait to practice it. So let's start some exercises and get to the example. So I just want to create a new class called infinite loop in the loop package. Now let's go ahead and create an infinite loop using the while loop with a condition true. This is an infinite while loop. You see, because this condition is always true and will never be false. And for this reason, this loop will continue forever. And I'll print the. This is an infinite loop message to the console. Now let's run the code. And as you can see, the message continues to be printed on the console and it will run forever. I guess as long as there's electricity. So yeah, let's just go ahead and terminate it. Now, of course, there are a few points here that you will need to pay attention to when you're working with infinite loops. Let's have a look. So I want you to note here. Yeah, it's an infinite loop, meaning it will never end if we do want to write code after this infinite loop, for example. Well, we would have to define a variable just below the loop. Here's one. Int equals five. And as you can see we get a compilation error right. The error we get is called unreachable code. Yeah it's the old unreachable code error because the while loop above is an infinite loop. And therefore the code here will never be accessible. Please don't forget that. But you may also encounter situations like this. So we'll define a new variable just above the infinite loop. Boolean is checked equals true. Now let's write the is checked variable instead of true in the while condition. And as you can see, the compilation error on this line is disappeared because the value true has been transferred to a variable, and the compiler takes into account the possibility that this variable may change and does not show the unreachable code error for the codes after the loop. So let's just take this example one step further. So I want to add the final keyword to the beginning of this variable. Now don't worry we're going to learn about the final in a lot more detail later on in later videos. But for now, just roll with it. Okay. If a variable has the final keyword in front of it, the value of this variable is now constant and cannot be changed again. Therefore, if you pay attention to this, after we add the final keyword, we start getting compilation errors right. Because now the value of the Ischecked variable is constant and will not change again. So I know it's a little bit of a nuance there, but let me just walk you through it once more. If you use a constant directly in the condition statement of an infinite while loop, the compiler understands that it will not change again and throws an unreachable code error for any code after the loop. However, if you use a variable instead of a constant in the condition statement, then the compiler thinks that there may be a possibility of this changing and it will not show a compilation error for the codes after the loop. Very useful to keep in mind whenever you're working with an infinite loop. B3. So now let's just convert all of these codes into comment lines, because I want to show you. Well, let me ask you what happens if the condition statement is always false? Okay. Let's just create a while loop with a condition of false right now. Yeah. So you can see this time we got an unreachable code error for the body of the loop. So it's the exact opposite of the previous situation, right. Because the condition expression was constant and is false, the compiler again produced an unreachable code error, but this time for the body of the loop. So why don't we then pass the value of false to a variable? Boolean is false equals false. Now let's use the is false variable in the condition statement. And there you can see the compilation error is gone. You see, it's the exact opposite of the situation that we saw above right? While an error is generated for the codes after the loop here an error is generated for the codes within the loop. Now again, if we write the final keyword at the beginning of the variable. As you can see, we are now starting to get those errors again because now the variable is false. It's a constant and its value can never be changed. Wow. I know that's a lot, but those are some of those details. We could develop a number guessing application using infinite loops. With this knowledge. And then we can wrap it up. So let's think about it first. What's going to happen in this application. What are you going to do with it. So first we'll generate a random number. And then we'll ask the user to guess this random number. And the loop will continue until the user finds the randomly generated number. So if the user guesses the randomly generated number correctly. The loop will end and well, we'll go from there. But right now let's just do the application using an infinite loop. So first of all I do have to generate a random number. And in Java we can easily generate a random number by using the random class. And for this I'll just need to create an object of the random class. I will select the random class in the Java.util package. We'll let the name of this variable be random again. Random equals new random. We can generate a random number using this random object. So here I write random dot next. So when you type dot next. As you can see, the code editor offers us some options. So we can generate random numbers of type double float or integer. Since we want to generate the integer numbers, I'll select the next int method. All right. So now we've got to specify the bounds of the number to be generated. If some of you were worried that we were going to have, you know, large numbers. No. For this particular app let's generate a random number between 0 and 100. So for this I'll write 100 here. See this way the smallest number to be randomly generated will be zero, and the largest number will be 99. Now if you want to, you can always specify the smallest number to be generated. For example, I could write five here as a first parameter. The next int method. Okay. The smallest number to be randomly generated will be five this time. All right moving on. I will also pass this randomly generated number to a new variable. So at the beginning of this line I write int generated number equals. So now we have a randomly generated number. Now it's time to learn the user's guess. Remember to get input from the user we use the scanner class scanner. Scanner equals new scanner system dot n. Now we need to tell the user to guess a number between 5 and 100. So let's just let the message be. Please enter a number between 5 and 100. Now after this step we're going to now take that user's guess and compare it with a randomly generated number. Now of course we need to do this in an infinite loop. Now for this loop to be an infinite loop, the condition should be true always, so we can write true as the condition statement. Now let's take the user's guess and the while loop. Int user input equals scanner dot next int. C. So I'm taking the user's guess in the while loop. Let me just say if we do this before the loop, the loop will continue forever. But when we get the user's guess here, every time the loop returns to the beginning, it will wait for the response from the user. You see how that's a crucial point. All right, let's continue. So I will compare the user's guess with a randomly generated number using the if else statement. If the user guess is greater than the generated number. I will show the decrease your guess message to the user. Okay, so now I'll create an else if statement. If the user's guess is less than the randomly generated number. I will show the increase your guess message to the user. So of course we know the situations in which the user's guess is larger or smaller than the randomly generated number. And now there's one last possibility left and that will be a correct guess. So we'll cover this in the else block. So here I will show a congratulations message to the user. There is one more thing we do need to do here, and that is if the user guessed correctly, the loop should now end. There are some key words that we'll use to terminate or continue loops. These are actually called branching statements. So these branching statements would be break continue and return. You don't need to worry about it though. You're going to learn all of those in detail in the upcoming videos. But for now we will use the break keyword and we'll end this loop. All right. So now we've created the infinite loop. This loop will continue until the user guesses correctly. The last step though I do want to close the scanner outside the loop. So I'll write scanner dot close c. So at this point, well, let me just draw your attention to one more thing. If you notice, we use the true expression in the while condition. So in other words, it is a constant expression and is always true. So in this case the loop is an infinite loop. However, the compiler doesn't give any unreachable code error for this line that we wrote outside the loop, because according to the information we learned at the beginning of the lesson. Do you remember what that was? It should actually give an unreachable code error. So why didn't it give that error? Yep. The reason for this is the break keyword. So in other words, since we use the break keyword within the loop, the compiler thinks that this loop will end and does not produce an unreachable code error for the codes written after the loop. Now, if we were to delete the break keyword. Well there you see, we now get the unreachable code error. But I'll tell you, my friends, this also is really important to keep in mind. Now let's run the code. Here it asks to enter a number between 5 and 100. Now, currently, a value between 5 and 100 is generated. If we were to enter a number, our guess will be compared with a randomly generated number. So for the first guess I'm just going to write 60. And you can see that well, how is it possible to actually know the randomly generated number. So we need to decrease our guess. So as a second guess let me just type 50 and press enter okay. Well no unfortunately I am wrong. Again this is just random guesses so I need to decrease my guess again. So now I'll enter 40. All right. So I need to decrease it again. And I'll enter 30. Oh, okay. So it's different. Now I need to increase it. So I'll enter 35. Okay. So now it says increase your guess. So the randomly generated number has got to be between 35 and 40. So let me just enter 37 this time. And I need to decrease it I'll enter 36. And just like that I finally have a correct guess. So you see how this is working, right? The loop will continue until we guess correctly. However, when we do guess correctly, the loop will end. You follow that. So this is what we call an infinite loop. All right. So that is the while loop and infinite loop concept. We're going to be using those a lot coming up. So just remember what you know. Take it in stride my friends. We'll take a little break here and see you in the next video.

=== 10. Do - While Loop ===
All right. Well hello my friends. Welcome back. So previously in that last video we learned about the while loop and the infinite loop in Java. So that means in this video we're going to talk about the do while loop. All right so here we go. The do while loop is actually a control flow statement in Java that allows a certain block of code to be executed repeatedly as long as the specified condition remains true. So the key difference between a do while loop and a while loop is the do while loop guarantees that the code block is executed at least once, as a condition is checked after the block of code you follow. So after the execution of the statements in the loop body, the value of the variable is updated, and finally the condition is checked for the true or false value. If the condition is true, the next iteration of the loop starts. If the condition returns false, the loop then terminates and jumps to the next statement after the do while loop. So that's enough of the explanation. Let's get into some practice. So here let's create a new class named Do While loop. And of course it's within the loop package. So I want to first help you understand the do while loop with a very simple example. Let's just write a program that prints the numbers from 5 to 1 to the console using this do while loop. We're going to declare a variable named I. The initial value will be five. So let's start creating the do while loop with the do keyword. So in the loop I will use the println method to display numbers. Yeah. So now we're going to need to update the variable I. So that means we'll just need to decrease the value of the number by one. Now we'll add a loop condition with the while keyword. So our condition is going to look like this right. I is greater than zero. Good. Let's just run the code. Now you see numbers from 5 to 1 on the console. So check it out in the do while loop. The print process and decrement part of the body are executed at least once before the condition. So to understand this a little better, let's have a look at this. I'll change the condition to I is greater than five. And let's say I'll just print the last value of the I variable outside the loop. All right. so before you get any further, let's just think through the logic and guess the output before you run the program. All right. So first of all the code in the Do block will run at least once in every case. So in this case we will see the first value of variable I namely five on the console. Then the value of I will be reduced by one. And that is it will be four right. Then the while condition will be checked. Since the new value of I is four and four is less than five. The condition will not be satisfied. So that is it will be false. So the loop is going to end right there. Then the print method outside the loop will be run. And the last value of I that is four will be printed to the console. Yeah. So now let's run the code and watch what happens. Check it out. So as you can see, the code in the do block is executed just once and the output is five, and the value of I is decreased by one inch. The new value of the I is four. Then it checks the condition. So the condition is false now and for this reason the loop terminates. So the last value of I is printed to the console as four. All right. So now that that's clear, what you really need to keep in mind is this in the do while loop, the codes in the do block are executed at least once, regardless of whether the condition is true or false. Right. So I want to just show you another example. And here we can see the while the do while and infinite loop together. This is convert all this to the comment line. And I'll create a variable named age. And the initial value of this variable can be 15. So now I'll just create a do while loop in the do block, I will decrease the age variable by one. And then I will create a while loop in the do block. The condition will be age is greater than 20. And I will increase the age variable by one in this loop. Now last up I will write the condition of the do while loop, and the condition could look like age less than 15. So I want to print the age variable on the console outside the do while loop. S out double quotes age plus age. Now, before running the code, I want to walk you through the logic and then you can guess the output. So the initial value of the age variable 15. Then the value of age will decrease on this line, so the new value of the age variable will be 14. All right. So then it will check the inner while loop condition. So the condition is false because 14 is less than 20. Okay. So then it skips the inner while loop and continues with the while condition of the do while loop. Right. So this condition is true because the new value of the age variable is 14 and 14. Yeah, it's less than 15. So therefore it returns the do block again. So this loop will continue forever. Like this. And as a result, since the loop will continue forever, the program is never going to reach this line. And the value of the age variable will never be printed to the console. So in fact, an infinite loop has actually been formed here, right? So let's just run it and have a look. See what it does. Yeah. So just watch the output. It's empty. Cool. So in fact, the do while loop is executing at this very moment. Let's try to observe it like this. So I'll copy this print method paste it into the inner while loop. And inside the do block I will change this explanation part to age in while loop. And this will be the age in due block. All right, let's run it and have a look at the output again. Right. So you can see now the code inside the do block that's going to be running forever right. So I just want to terminate this code. Now I want to change some operators of the inner while loop. So let's just change it to less than. Now let's have a look at that code again. The initial value of the age variable 15. The value of the age variable will decrease on this line. So the new value of the age variable will be 14. And it will check the inner while loop condition. Right. So the condition is true because 14 is less than 20. And it will continue with this line. The value of age will increase on this line. So the new value of the age variable will be 15. And the second output on the console will be age in while loop 15. And since the condition is true, the code returns to the beginning of the while loop again. So this iteration will continue until the value of the age variable is 20, right? So this print method will execute six times after the condition of the inner while loop is false. Well, it will continue with that part of the do while loop. Now the last value of the age variable is 20, and since 20 is not less than 15, the condition will be false. So the loop will be terminated and the last print method will be executed. Right. So we can see the last value of the age is 20. So let's just run it again. And as you can see now the first value of the age variable is 14. Then the inner while loop ran six times. And the new values of age get printed to the console when the value of age is 20. The inner while condition is no longer satisfied, and the condition in the do while loop is passed. All right. So this condition is no longer met and the loop gets terminated. And finally, the last value of the age variable that is 20 gets printed to the console with the print method outside the loop. So there you go with another simple example. Hoping that that makes it a lot more clear. That's working with loops. But I do want to bring you through a very simple application just using that do while loop. You can see how useful it is. So first off though, we do need to explain the program that we're going to develop soon. Not just yet, but this will be a part. So this program is going to constantly prompt the user to enter numbers, and it'll add up each number that the user enters. Okay. So the user may want to continue collecting just by pressing the uppercase or lowercase y key. 1st May also want to exit the program by pressing the uppercase or lowercase n End key. All right. So when the user wants to exit the program, the program will print the total on the screen and say the program has terminated. All right. So that will be the message up on the screen. So let's just start developing this little program now. So we'll first need to take the user input right. And we use the scanner class for that. And let's declare a variable called result. Its initial value will be zero. And here we'll also need to create a character variable to check if the user wants to continue or not. Right. So char continue to calculate. Good. Now let's start to write the do while loop. In the do block we will write a print message asking the user to enter a number so the message can be. Enter a number. Now we need to take the number entered by the user and assign it to a variable. Int number equals input dot next int. Now we will add the number we received from the user to the result variable. And I'll use the add and assignment operator for this result plus equals number. All right so there's the first edition. After this stage we've got to ask the user whether they want to continue or not. So the message might be do you want to continue. And I'll write y n inside the parentheses. Good. So now let's take the user's answer and transfer it to the continue to calculate variable. Continue to calculate equals input.nextline at zero. All right. So this way we're taking the first character entered by the user and transfer it to the variable. Now we just need to check the user's answer within the while condition. So if the first letter of the user's answer is capital Y, or if the first letter of the user's answer is lowercase y, in this case, the loop will continue. All right. So there you have the necessary codes for that do while loop. If the user does not want to continue processing and the user will press a letter N. User can also press another letter and there's actually not going to be any problem. The program will then be terminated. But now we can just print that result of the operation of the console. Right? S out double quotes. The sum of the numbers are. Plus result. Remember to also print the message that the program has terminated. And lastly let's close the scanner object. All right my friends. So the program is ready. Let's just have a run and test it out. All right. So here it's asking us to enter a number. I'll just enter five. And when it asks if I want to continue I'll press the letter Y. So it asked me to winner a number. Again I'll enter five again. And it asks once more if I want to continue. Let's just press Y again, and it asks me to enter another number and I'll just enter three. So this time, do I want to continue? I'll just press the letter N. Okay. So there you go. The program gets terminated, and then the sum of the numbers that we've already entered gets printed to the console as the sum 13. Now, I know it might seem just a tad complicated at the start, but you will encounter similar examples. That's why I wanted to use this up front. Okay, so we're going to have a well just a quick break here, but I want to see you in the next video.

=== 11. Break Keyword ===
All right, all right. Welcome back, my friends. Hello. And obviously, we finished the decision making statements and loops in Java. But before we wrap up this whole section, let's just talk a little bit about some keywords that we often use in loops, namely branching statements. Now what are these branching statements and why do I need to know them? Branching statements are used to change the normal flow of execution in some conditions. So Java provides three branching statements break, continue and return break. We've used it before. It's used to terminate loops or switch statements. Control of the program moves to the next statement following the loop. Continue is used to continue the loop. When the continue statement is executed, control of the program jumps to the end of the loop and the loop condition is evaluated. So that leaves us with return, and that's used to exit from the current method. And the control flow returns to where the method was invoked. All right. So let's do some examples with branching statements. Uh we're going to start with a break statement. Let's first create a new package in the exercise project. So I'll right click on the source folder and select New and Package. Specify the package name as branching. Now I want to create a new Java class in this package. Let the class name be break statement. All right so lastly I'll need to add the main method. Okay. So first we'll use a break statement in a switch case statement. Let's declare a variable A with the initial value set to zero. Conditional switch expression is variable A. We have two case values. First one is zero, and if the value of the variable is zero, then we will print hi to console and we'll add the break statement. So let's copy the code. And change the case value. And if the value is one then we will print hello to console. And we'll use the break statement again. So let's run the code. And you see high as a message in the console. So let's change the value of the variable with a one. And let's run the code. Now you see hello as the message in the console. So let's change the value of the variable with a zero. Now if we don't use a break keyword in the first case, what will happen. So let's remove the break keyword from the code. And now let's run the code. You see the high message and the hello message in the console. So all the cases will be executed until it sees the break keyword. That's why it's recommended to put a break after each case. Now, we've already learned this way of using the break keyword and the switch case video, remember? Now let's just have a look at how to use it in the for loop. So I want to convert these codes to the comment line. Now in the for loop I want to declare a variable named x with the initial value 15. The condition will be x greater than or equal to zero. The update statement will be x minus minus. Let's print the x values to the console inside the loop. So this loop will print the numbers from 15 to 0 to the console. You already got that. So what should I do if I want to end the loop when the x value is five. Let's say yeah. So in other words, what do you need to do if you want to print the numbers from 15 to 6 to the console. This, my friends, is where the break keyword comes into play. Yeah, let's do it right now. So I want to check to see whether the x variable is five with an if statement. If x is equal to five, let's end the loop with a break keyword. So in this case when the x variable is five, the if condition will be true and the loop will end. Thanks to the break keyword. And we're going to see the values from 15 to 6 on the console. Oh, you don't believe me, huh? Let's run it and test it. There you see, the last printed x variable is six because when x is five, the condition is met and the for loop gets terminated with that break keyword. Good good good. Let's do another example with for each loop. So I'll convert these codes to the comment line. And I'll first create a string array and let's name the array animals. I'll initialize this array. Let the first element of this array be monkey. The second element can be b. Third element. How about cat? Fourth will be dog. And let's make the fifth. Cow. Now let's create the foreach loop for string animal colon animals. And I'll create an if statement in the for each loop. If the animal is equal to. Dog. I will use the break keyword. And after the if statement I will print the. Animal object to the console. Now, before we go running any code, let's just see how it's going to work. Now the string array has five elements with a for each loop. We access the elements of the array in order. So in other words, the monkey element will be transferred to the animal variable in the first iteration. The b in the second iteration can the third. And in this way the loop will continue. Now of course, we check the value passed to the animal object with the if statement in each loop. So whenever the value gets passed to the animal object is dog, this time the if condition will be satisfied in the compiler will enter the if block. Since we're using the break keyword here, the loop will terminate at this stage and the compiler will go out of the loop. Therefore, monkey B and cat will be printed onto the console screen. Let's run it and test it out. You see, Monkey Be and Cat were printed on the console screen. I wouldn't lie to you. All right, so let's do this example using the while loop and the index number of the elements in the array. So we'll first just convert these codes of the comment line. And we'll now create a variable called index of type int. So its initial value is going to be zero. I will also create a variable named animal where we will pass each element of the array to a variable of type string. The initial value will be null. Now let's create the while loop. The condition will be. Index is less than animals dot length. So here I will first transfer each element of the array to the variable animal. So animal equals animals square brackets index. Now you remember right we could access the index element of the array like this using the index number. So let's now create an if statement just like we did before. If the animal is equal to dog. I will use the break keyword. And then finally we'll increase the index number by one. So this time I'll create the print method outside of the while loop. So this way we'll also be able to see which element was transferred to the variable animal last. Now we are expecting the element dog to be printed on the console. Let's run it and check it out. And there you see my friends, it says dog on the console screen. If you've ever been so excited to see a dog before. Um, so this happens because when the element dog gets passed to the variable animal, the condition in the if statement becomes true and the break keyword is activated and then the loop is terminated. Therefore, the last element dog gets transferred to the variable animal. Good job. Now one last thing before we wrap it up here. I wonder if it's actually crossed your mind. Can we actually use the break keyword anywhere we want? Well, let's try it. Let's use the break statement anywhere. Well, within reason, I guess. Let's declare a variable named age and its initial value. Let's just make it 50. And after that I will decrease the value of the age variable by one. Now I'll create an if statement. The if condition will be age is equal to 40. And in the if block I'll try to use the break keyword. Let's see. Well then we get a compilation error because break cannot be used outside of a loop or switch. So if you see this kind of usage it's actually wrong. Please remember. In other words don't forget. Anyway, that's how you use a break keyword in Java. We'll take a short break here in the next video. When we come back, we'll examine another branching statement. Not to go out on a limb or nothing. All right, stick around. See you in the next video.

=== 12. Continue Keyword ===
We'll check it out. My friends, we're going to continue to examine branching statements in Java. So in the previous video we learned how to use the break keyword. So in this video let's check out how to use the continue keyword. Now using the continue keyword is actually just like the break keyword. There is a difference though. It's only used in loops, so it's not used in the switch or if statements. The task of the continue keyword skips the relevant step of the loop and continues with the next step. So for example, in a five iteration loop, if you want to skip step three after skip two and continue from step four, we can simply use a continue keyword. When you reach step three, I'll show you what it looks like and we can practice using the continue keyword. So go into Exercise project. Right click on the branching package, select New Java class and specify the class name continue statement. All right so now we've got the class ready. Let's add the main method. So first let's use the continue statement in the standard for loop. Now the process that will do goes like this. We'll check the numbers from 10 to 0 with a for loop, and print the even numbers in this range to the console. And if we encounter an odd number using or during the loop, yeah, we will skip that step and continue with the next step. You see what I mean. So let's just create this program. So in the for loop let's declare a variable num and its initial value will be ten. Our condition is num greater than or equal to zero. And it decrements by one. All right. Now let's find out. See whether the number is odd or even with an if statement. If num modulus operator two is equal to one means that if num is an odd number, we use a continue statement to continue the loop, and I'll use the print method to write numbers to the screen outside of the if statement. But in the for loop, you got it. So let's examine the code, see what it looks like. How it works. The initial value of num is ten, and ten is greater than zero, so the condition is true. It moves to the if statement. In the if statement 10% two is zero. So the condition is false. Therefore the continue keyword will not evaluate and the compile will skip the if statement and then goes to the print method. After printing the number ten to the console, it returns to the beginning of the for loop. Now the new value of num is nine. So in the second iteration, the new value of num is nine. So the nine is greater than the zero. So the condition is true and it moves to the if statement again. But this time 9% two is one. And the if statement is true. So the continue keyword will evaluate this time and the second iteration will be skipped. And the compiler goes to the third iteration directly. The print method here will not execute. Now the new value of num is eight. And so it goes just like that. It checks all the conditions. If the num is odd, the condition of the if statement will be true in the continue keyword will evaluate and the relevant step will be skipped if the num is even, the condition of the if statement will be false and the continue keyword will not evaluate. So it goes on like this to the print method and prints the even number to the console. Okay, let's just run that code. Watch it happen before your very eyes. So you see the even numbers from 10 to 0 on the console. But I want to do another quick example. The for each loop. So let's just convert all this to the comment line. So I want to create a string array. Now the name of this array can be animals. And I will initialize this array. The first element of this array can be monkey. The second element can be B, the third cat the fourth dog. The fifth cow. Now let's create the for each loop for string animal colon animals. And I'll create an if statement in the for each loop. If the animal is equal to dog, I will use the continue statement. And after the if statement, I will print the animal object to the console. Let's have a look at the code and examine it in detail so that you can, you know, visualize what it's going to do. The string array has five elements with a. For each loop, we access the elements of the array in order. In other words, a monkey element will be transferred to the variable animal in the first iteration, B in the second iteration, cat in the third, and so on. So in this way the loop will continue. Now of course, we check the value passed to the animal object with the if statement in each loop. So whenever the value passed to the animal object is dog, this time the if condition will be satisfied and the compiler will enter the if block. Now, since we're using the continue keyword here, this step will be skipped and the next iteration will begin. You follow. Therefore, monkey, bee, cat and cow will all be printed onto the console screen. Let's go ahead and run it. And there you see monkey, bee, cat and cow were printed onto the console screen. Now let's do this example using the while loop and the index number of the elements in the array. All right. So we'll first just convert these codes to the comment line. Now let's create a variable called index of type int, it's initial value will be zero. I want to also create a variable called animal, where we will pass each element of the array to a variable of type string. Now let's create the while loop and the condition will be. Index is less than animals dot length. So here I'll first transfer each element of the array to the variable animal. Animal equals animals square brackets. Index. Now let's create an if statement. If the animal is equal to cow I will use the continue keyword. Now I will create the print method outside the if statement, but in the while loop. And we'll finally increase the index number by one. Now, before we go running any code, let's examine the details. So we expect elements other than cow to be printed on the console, right? But there is a point that we need to pay attention to here. If the index number is four, the if condition will be satisfied in the continue keyword will be executed. Therefore, this step will be skipped and the next step will be taken. But if you pay attention, the index number is not going to change because the continue keyword is before the increase process in the related step will be skipped before the increase process starts, and the next step will continue with the same index number. Therefore, if we create the while loop like that, an infinite loop is going to occur here and it's just going to drive you crazy. In fact, let's just watch you go crazy here. So you see, right, the first four elements are printed to the console. The program is still running. So now why don't we just use a print method before the if condition to understand this just a little bit better? All right. So let's run it again. So now you can see the core element is printed on the console forever and ever and ever and ever. In fact the first four elements were printed to the console first. And then when the index number became four. Since the if condition was true, the program returned to the beginning of the loop before reaching the line where the index number was increased, and so after this stage, an infinite loop occurs. Now if you want to, we could observe that the first four elements are printed to the console and the infinite loop begins after that. Right? So we'll first terminate the program and clear the logcat. Okay. Now we can have the compiler wait for a short period of time after each element gets printed. Now this is out of the loop's topic, but I just wanted to show you as a sidebar, by the way, so you don't really have to do this. I just want to show you something. So we can use the sleep method of the thread class in the Java.lang package to delay compiler. So here I'm writing Thread.sleep, and I should write the duration of the delay in milliseconds in parentheses. In Java, one second equals 1000 milliseconds. So I'm just typing 500 here to make the compiler wait for half a second. Also, this parameter must be of the type long. That's why I also use the L suffix. Okay. Yeah. So you can see the compiler throws a compilation error because we have to put it in the try and catch block, which we'll learn later. Just stay with me. So here I click the More actions and choose the surround with try catch option. Now let's run this application once more. So do you see here. This time the elements are printed to the console at half second intervals, and the first four elements are printed to the console. Then after the first four elements are printed to the console, the infinite loop gets started. Now you get it. Well, it's just easier to understand now. But the point is, what are we really need to do to prevent this infinite loop? Well, to fix it, we will write the increment before the if statement. So now we can delete this print method. Now I do need to also mention that if you use the increment statement at the beginning, you will get an array index out of bounds exception error. This time, because the index number in the last element will be equal to the size of the array. However, the last index number was one less than the array size. So our array consists of five elements and the index number of the last element is four. Now if you write the increment statement here, the index number variable will be five. And there is no element in the fifth index. The last index is four. All right. Just be careful. So for this reason actually the correct place for the update statement is just before the if statement. All right. So there's some information for you. Let's just run the code again. All right. So now you can see the elements other than the cow get printed to the console. Because when the element cow is passed to the variable animal, the condition in the if statement becomes true and the continue keyword is activated and the compiler goes to the while condition. But now the index number is five and it is not less than the length of the array. So the program is terminated. Therefore, the last element cow was not printed on the console. Now, just one last tip before we wrap it up here about the continue keyword. Can we actually use the continue keyword anywhere? Well, let's try it out with a little experiment. Let's just use the continue statement somewhere else. Let's declare a variable named age and its initial value. Let's just make that 20. And in the next line, I'll increase it by one. Now I'll create an if statement. If the age is equal to 25 we try to use the continue keyword. All right. So I'll just print the variable age. And as you can see we do get a compilation error because the continue keyword cannot be used outside of a loop. It's only used inside of a loop. But the if and switch are not a loop. But if you ever encountered that, it's actually wrong. Just want to let you know. Okay. The continue keyword is very useful in Java. Now you know how it works. So let's go ahead and take a short break here. Now when we come back in the next video we're going to examine another branching statement. What? There's more. You betcha. See you then.

=== 13. Return Keyword ===
All right, all right. Hello everybody. Welcome back my friends. So in this video we're going to learn about the return statement, which is the last of the branching statements used in Java. What did I hear? A sigh of relief. All right. Anyway, the return statement is used to exit from the current method. So with the return statement, the control flow returns to where the method was invoked. Now let's just do a couple of short examples with the return statement. Alrighty then. In the exercise project, right click on the branching package and select New Class and specify the class name as Return statement. So first we use a return statement in the switch case statement and we'll declare a variable k with the initial value one. The conditional switch expression is variable k. So we have two case values. First is one. And if the value of the variable is one, then we will print one to the console. And then we add the break statement. So now let's copy the code and then change the case value. And if the value is two then we will print two to the console. And then we can add the return statement. And then finally we'll add the print method after the switch loop to test the statement. So let's run the code. And both of the print methods are executed and the messages are displayed. Now because break is used to exit a switch statement, the second print method is executed right. So let's change the value of variable k with two and let's run the code. So now only the first method in the second case is executed. And this message is displayed because the return statement is used to exit the current method. So the second print method is not executed. All right. So now let's do another example with the for each loop. And I will convert these codes to the comment line. And first let me just create a string array named cars. And the first element of this array can be BMW. The second element can be Mercedes. The third can be Ferrari. The fourth will be Opal and the fifth will be Ford. All right. Now let's create the for each loop for string car colon cars. And I will create an if statement in the for each loop. If the car is equal to Opal. I will use the return keyword. And after the if statement, I will print the car object to the console. And I will also add the second print method that includes this statement will not be executed outside the for each loop. So before we go running the code, let's just have a look see what it's going to do. The string array has five elements with the. For each loop, we access the elements of the array in order. So in other words, the BMW element will be transferred to the variable car in the first iteration, Mercedes, in the second iteration, Ferrari in the third, etc.. So in this way the loop is going to continue. You know, now of course, we check the value passed to the car object with the if statement in each loop whenever the value passed to the car object is Opal. This time the if condition will be satisfied and the compiler will enter in the if block. Now, since we are using the return keyword here, the method will terminate at this stage and the compiler will go out of the method. Therefore, BMW, Mercedes and Ferrari will be printed on the console screen, but the Opel and Ford in the last print method will not execute. Oh, you heard me. Let's run it and test. All right, so there you see BMW, Mercedes, Ferrari get printed on the console screen. All right. So let us try to use the return statement anywhere. We'll declare a variable is check with boolean type. Its initial value will be true. Now I want to print before the return statement message to the console. So after that I'll create an if statement. If is check means the condition is true, then I will add the return statement. I'll also add a second print method that includes this statement will not be executed. All right. That's going to be the message. Let's run the code. All right. So you can see only the first method gets executed. And the before the return message gets displayed. Because the compiler ignores every statement after return in the same method. Now let's do it like this so that you can understand it just a little bit better. Let the first statement in the main method be the return statement. Now what do you notice? There's no restriction on using the return statement. We can use it everywhere. But you really do need to pay attention to this. Check it out. We're getting a compilation error on this line because the compiler will never reach this line. And the reason for that is that the compiler exits the method it is in when it reaches the return statement. Therefore, the compiler ignores the codes after the return statement. All right. So that's pretty clear. Yeah. So my friends, guess what. We've now completed branching or also what's known as jump statements. But before we go doing anything else, why don't we take a short break here. But stick around, because we've got another great video coming up for you. All right. See you on the other side.

=== 14. Labeled Loops ===
All right my friends, welcome back. So far we have learned in pretty good detail, if I do say so. Right. The control statements and loops that we use in Java, you're also getting very used to it now. But we also talked about some keywords that we use to terminate or continue loops. But actually we achieved our goal. Yeah, we already achieved our goal in this section. But before we wrap it up entirely and put a bow on it, I just want to mention one last thing labeling the loops. Yeah, it's actually kind of pretty sort of really important. So what about the labeling of the loops? Well, to just define it simply a label is a valid variable name, and it specifies the name of the loop that execution control should jump through. The loops we label are now called labeled loops. See, that's easy enough. But we use this mostly when we're doing nested loops. So in a complex nested loop, it can be very difficult to determine which loop you want to have terminate when a certain condition gets met. So to overcome that situation, we preemptively name the loops when necessary. And then when we have that desired condition met, it will be enough to use the name of the loop that we want to terminate. Yeah. So labeling a loop is quite simple. What you need to do is write the label name at the beginning of the loop, and then put a colon right. So this way you give it name to that loop. So if we look at the example that you can see here on the screen, we've got two nested for loops. The outer loop is called, well, the outer loop. The inner loop is called, well, the inner loop. And there is an if condition inside the inner loop. So when this condition is met, the break keyword is called using the label of the outer loop. So in other words, when the condition is met, the program exits the outer loop. That's enough theory. Let's practice it. So I just want to create a new Java class named labeled loops in the loop package. Okay, so here we go. Let's first make a simple example of label loops. I'll create a string array named animals. I will initialize this array. Let the first element of this array be cat. Second element. Let's call it dog. Third, let's do cow and the fourth will be lion. Oh, you know what? Let's throw in the last element to be rabbit. All right. So let's say our example goes like this. We're going to check the elements of the array one by one using the while loop and the index number of the array. Okay. So if we encounter a lion element let's first print it to the console and then end the loop. Otherwise let the loop continue running. Okay. So we are going to first create a variable called index of type int. Its initial value will be zero. And I'll also create a variable called animal. This is where we will pass each element of the array to a variable of the type string. We're going to make this initial value be null. And now let's create the while loop. The condition will be index is less than the animals dot length. Here I'll need to first transfer each element of the array to the variable animal. Animal equal animals. Square brackets index. Now let's create an if statement. If the animal is equal to lion. I will print the animal. And I will use the break keyword. So finally let's increase the index by one. Good. Now let's run the project. All right. And there you see the output is lion the predicted result. Good. So now we're ready to make the label for this simple example. Now at the beginning of the loop, just to the left of the while keyword, we're going to write a statement representing this loop. For example, let the label of the loop be animals loop. Then I put in a colon between the label and the loop. Of course, if you want to, you can write the label just above the loop that actually has no effect. It's not a problem. Same thing, but you really do need to use that colon between the label and the loop. All right, let's just write the label of the loop after the break keyword, namely the animals loop statement. All right. Now let's run the application. Test it out, see what it looks like. All right. So you see the result is the same right. Nothing has changed. But now when you go into the code, you'll know what's what. All right let's do up another example a little bit different. But you'll definitely be able to see how important using labels actually is. All right. So here we will create a nested for loop for the outer for loop the initial statement will be int I equals one. The control statement will be I is less than or equals two three. The update statement will be I plus plus. And now let's create an inner for loop. So for the inner for loop the initial statement will be int j equals one. The control statement will be j is less than or equals to three. And the update statement will be j plus plus in the inner loop. First I will print the value of the I and j s out. Double quotes outer loop. Plus I plus double quotes a comma. Inner loop. Plus j. All right. So after this print method we'll just put in a if statement. If the I is equal to two and the j is equal to two. I will use the break keyword. All right. So our loop and the if condition is now ready. So I'm going to ask you in your opinion which for loop will be terminated by the break keyword when the condition here is met. Do you need another minute? No, I'm just playing. Of course it terminates the inner for loop. So what should we do though? If we want to terminate an outer for loop? See, this, my friends, is where labels really come in handy. If we want to terminate the outer loop, we should give a label to it and then use that label after the break keyword. So why don't we just set up the same loop using a label, and then you'll be able to see clearly the difference. So I'll just copy these codes. And I'm going to use a label for the nested loop below. So let the label of the outer for loop be outer loop. And we'll make that label of the inner loop be inner loop. And now let's use a label of the outer loop namely outer loop after the break keyword. Now to separate them from each other, let's add a title to each of them with the print method. So we'll just make the title of this be unlabeled loop. And we'll let the title of this be labeled loop. And now let's test it out. Yeah. Run the program. Okay. So do you notice the output is different for both of them? Right. What's the reason for this? When you don't use a label, when the if condition is met, the inner for loop ends and the program moves to the outer for loop. However, when the outer for loop runs, the inner for loop runs again. You follow. So in other words, the termination of the program occurs by terminating the outer for loop. However, when you use the label, when the if condition is met, the outer for loop is terminated and the program then ends. All right. So that's why it's very important using labels, especially when you're doing nested loops. But just get in the habit of using labels. Not such a big deal. All right. So let's just take a short break here and we'll pick it up next time. So I'll see you in the next video.

=== 15. Fibonacci Series ===
All right, my friends. Welcome back. Check it out. We've got something else going on. Huh? So we've learned all about decision making statements, loops and branching statements in Java. So that means we've come to the end of this section. But don't get too disappointed because we'll wrap up this section by developing our second project together. Okay. So in this project we're going to learn a mathematical concept. If you don't already know about the Fibonacci series, we're going to learn how to implement it in Java. Let's get started. It's a lot of fun. So I want to close the old project and create a new Java project. So the project name will be Fibonacci Series. Now the other options will all be the same as previous projects. So I'll click on the create button to create the project. All right. Now in this project just right click on the source folder and select New and Package. Specify the package name Fibonacci. Now I want to create a new Java class in this project. Class name will be Fibonacci. And lastly I will add the main method. Now before coding, let's remember the Fibonacci sequence. Review it or learn it for the first time depending upon where you're at. The Fibonacci sequence is zero, one, one, two, three, five, eight, 13, 21, 34, 55. And it goes and goes and goes and goes. The next number is found by adding up the two numbers before it, right? For example, the next number, the sequence above is 34 plus 55, and that equals 89. I know you're way ahead of me. I just had to go over it. So let's start to code. First we'll need to import the scanner class for getting the input from the user. And now we're looking at a message to enter the max sequence number by using the print method. And then we can declare a variable number with the int type. And then assign the next int method of the scanner class to this variable. So let's go ahead and declare three variables with int type. First up fib Previous with initial value as zero. Second up Fibonacci with initial value set to one and last sum with the initial value zero. Now the variable fib previous represents the first number of the Fibonacci series and variable Fibonacci represents the second number of the Fibonacci series. Now we can start to write the for loop. So in the for loop, we declare variable I and initialize it so its initial value is one. Our test condition is I less than or equal to number and it increments by one. Then we use the print method to display the numbers of the Fibonacci series. So we use the variable fib previous for this. So on each iteration we add first the number fib previous and then the second number Fibonacci, and assign this sum to a variable sum. And then we just assign the second number Fibonacci to the first number fib previous. And we assign the sum of the last two numbers to the second number. Fibonacci. Good good good. So now the program is ready. Let's examine the code. So for example the variable number. Let's make it five. So the initial value of I is one and one less than the five. So the condition is true. And for this reason the print method will execute. The first number will display on the console is zero. That is the value of the fib previous variable. Now in the first iteration, the sum will be one, because the fib previous is zero and Fibonacci is one, and the sum of zero and one is equal to one. In the first iteration, the fib previous will be one because the value of Fibonacci is currently one. And in the first iteration, Fibonacci will be one, because the value of the sum is currently one. Okay, now the compiler begins the second iteration. In the second iteration, the value of I is two and two less than the five, and the condition is true. So for this reason, this print method will execute again and the second number will display on the console is one. That is the value of the fib previous variable. right? If you notice the value of the fib, previous is one. Now in the second iteration, the sum will be two because the fib previous is one and Fibonacci is one, and the sum of one and one is equal to two. And in the second iteration, the fib previous will be one again, because the value of Fibonacci is currently one. And in the second iteration, Fibonacci will be two, because the value of the sum is currently two. Okay. Now the compiler begins the third iteration. The value of I is three, and three is less than five, and the condition is true. And for this reason the print method will execute again and the third number will display on the console is one. That is the value of fib. Previous. Now if you notice the value of fib previous. Is one right? In the third iteration, the sum will be three because the fib previous. Is one and the Fibonacci is two, and the sum of the one and the two variables is equal to three. Now in the third iteration, the fib previous will be two because the value of Fibonacci is currently two. And in the third iteration, Fibonacci will be three, because the value of the sum is currently three. Okay, so now the compiler begins a fourth iteration, and in the fourth iteration, the value of I is four, and four happens to be less than five, and the condition is true. And for this reason, the print method will execute again and the fourth number will display on the console is two. That is the value of the fib previous variable. If you notice the value of the fib previous is two. Now in the fourth iteration, the sum will be five because the fib previous is two and the Fibonacci is three, and the sum of the two and the three variable is equal to five. And in the fourth iteration, the fib previous will be three, because the value of Fibonacci is currently three. And in the fourth iteration, Fibonacci will be five, because the value of the sum is currently five. Okay, we go on because now the compiler begins a fifth iteration, and in the fifth iteration, the value of I is five and five is equal to five, and the condition is true. So for this reason this print method will execute again. In the fifth number will display on the console is three. That is the value of the previous variable. If you notice the value of the fib previous is three. So now in the fifth generation the sum will be eight because the fib previous is three and Fibonacci is five. And in the fifth iteration the fib previous will be five, because the value of Fibonacci is currently five. And in the fifth iteration, Fibonacci will be eight, because the value of the sum is currently eight. All right, so now the compiler begins a six iteration. And in the sixth iteration, the value of I is six and six is greater than five. And the condition is false. So the for loop will finally terminate. All right. So that means the output will be 011, two and three. All right so let's run the code. I'll enter five. So we enter five for max sequence. And you see the first five numbers of the Fibonacci series in the console. Now if you want let's change the print line method to print. And we'll see the numbers side by side. All right. Let's run it again. This time I'll enter ten. All right. So you can see the first ten numbers of the Fibonacci series are printed on the console. So far, so good, huh? Yeah. So why don't we just take a short break here and I'll see you in the next video.
