=== 1. Section Overview ===
I'm right, I'm right, my friends. Welcome back. So in this section we're going to just do a little bit of a object oriented programming and its implementations okay. So in this context we are going to learn the fundamental subject of object oriented programming inheritance. Then we'll get to method overriding. Once we get that down we're going to walk through how to use super and the this keywords. Then we'll be able to move on to how to use the final keyword. And then you'll be ready for those abstract classes we were talking about. Then we'll get to interfaces which will lead us to polymorphism, but get ready because then we'll be able to understand encapsulation. Haha. So my friends, it's a lot to do. Why don't we get together in the next video and have a great time doing it?

=== 2. Inheritance ===
All right. Hello my friends. Welcome back. So check it out. In this video we are going to conquer inheritance in object oriented programming. Now you first have to understand that inheritance is just a fundamental concept of object oriented programming. So it's used when we have an is a relationship between objects. So for example a mountain bike is a bicycle, a road bike is a bicycle, a tandem bike is a bicycle. All right. Different kinds of objects often have a certain amount in common with each other. So we're going to talk about inheritance by using a little real life example. So for example mountain bikes road bikes and tandem bikes. These all have common characteristics such as current speed, current pedal cadence and current gear of the bicycle will say, but you see, each of them can also define additional features that make them different. For example, tandem bicycles have two seats and two sets of handlebars. Road bikes have drop handlebars. Some mountain bikes have an additional chainring, giving them a lower gear ratio, etc., etc. you know what we're talking about. So as a result, object oriented programming allows classes to inherit commonly used states and behavior from other classes. So in this example, bicycle now becomes the superclass of mountain bike, road bike and tandem bike. So when you think of it in terms of the Java programming language, each class is allowed to have one direct superclass. And each superclass has the potential for an unlimited number of subclasses. All right. Now the syntax for creating a subclass is actually very simple. After your class name, use the extends keyword followed by the name of the class to inherit from Rthy. So here you can see on your screen the syntax. So you see how this gives mountain bike all the same fields and methods as the bicycle. Yet it allows its code to focus exclusively on the features that make it unique. And this makes code for your subclasses a lot easier to read. Also, though, inheritance enables us to reuse existing code. Aha! So we could also say that inheritance supports the concept of reusability. That is whenever we want to write or create a new class. And there is already a class that includes some of the code that we want to write. We can derive our new class from the existing class. Then by doing this we are reusing the fields and methods of the existing class. Yes. Efficiency my friends. So now let's look at the other concepts of inheritance and the object class and it'll all come together magically. Now in Java, all classes can inherit variables and methods from another class. A class that is derived from another class is called a subclass. Also a derived class. Extended class or child class. But they're all subclasses. Right now, the class from which the subclass is derived is called a superclass. You could also call it a base class or a parent class. Accepting Object which has no superclass. Every class has one and only one direct superclass, which means it's a single inheritance. In the absence of any other explicit superclass, every class is implicitly a subclass of object. All right. That's why object is the exception. So classes can be derived from classes that are derived from classes that are derived from classes and so on. Right. So ultimately derived from the topmost class object. Now such a class is said to be descended from all the classes in the inheritance chain stretching back to object. Good thing we have visuals, huh? A subclass inherits all the members. That's the fields, the methods and nested classes from its superclass. By the way, constructors are not members, so they are not inherited by subclasses. By the constructor of the superclass can be invoked from the subclass. Important distinction. The object class, which is defined in the Java.lang package, defines and implements behavior common to all classes, including the ones that you write. So in the Java platform, many classes derived directly from object, other classes derive from some of those classes, and so on, forming a hierarchy of classes. Now, at the bottom of the hierarchy object is the most general of all these classes. Right. So classes near the bottom of the hierarchy provide more specialized behavior. So the idea of inheritance is actually very simple but extremely powerful when you want to create a new class, and there is already a class that includes some of the code that you want. You can always derive your new class from the existing class, and in doing this, you can reuse the fields and methods of the existing class without having to write and debug them yourself. So let's have a look at what we can actually do in a subclass. So you already know that a subclass inherits all of the public and protected members of its parent, no matter what package the subclass is in. If the subclass is in the same package as its parent, it also inherits the package. Private members of the parent follow. So a subclass does not inherit the private members of its parent class. However, if the superclass has public or protected methods for accessing its private fields, these can also be used by the subclass. A nested class has access to all the private members of its enclosing class, both fields and methods. Therefore, a public or protected nested class inherited by a subclass has indirect access to all of the private members of the superclass. You can use the inherited members as is, replace them, hide them, or supplement them with new members. Inherited fields can be used directly, just like any other fields. You can declare a field in the subclass with the same name as the one in the superclass, thus hiding it. Although that is really kind of frowned on, it's not recommended. You can also declare new fields in the subclass that are not in the superclass, and the inherited methods can be used directly just as they are. Also, you can write a new instance method in the subclass that has the same signature as the one in the superclass, thereby overriding it. You could also write a new static method in the subclass that has the same signature as the one in the superclass, thereby hiding that as well. Also, you can declare new methods in the subclass that are not in the superclass, and you can write a subclass constructor that invokes the constructor of the superclass, either implicitly or by using the keyword super. So now we need to define the type of inheritance. So there are some types of inheritance that are supported by Java. And these would be single inheritance multi-level inheritance and hierarchical inheritance. Now you can use these inheritance types between Java classes. But apart from these, there are actually two more types of inheritance. Multiple inheritance and hybrid inheritance. That's okay. You'll absorb it gradually, but check it out. We can use multiple and hybrid inheritance types in interfaces, not in Java classes. We're going to get to those in a different video, but we are going to make some examples of these in our interface lesson. But again just know it exists. Let's just have a look at what these inheritance types are and what it means to you. First up single inheritance. So when a class inherits another class it's known as a single inheritance. So in the example given right here up on the screen, the road bike inherits the bicycle. So there is a single inheritance. In multi-level inheritance, a derived class will inherit a base class and as well as a derived class, also acts as the base class for other classes. So on the screen here, the class vehicle serves as a base class for the derived class bicycle. Also, the bicycle class serves as a base class for the derived class road bike. So now the object of the road bike class can access the properties of both the bicycle and the vehicle classes. Aha! But in Java, a class cannot directly access the grandparents members. You see that? Okay, then we get to hierarchical inheritance, where one class serves as a superclass or base class for more than one subclass. So what you're looking at on the screen here is the class bicycle serves as a base class for the derived class mountain bike, road bike and tandem bike. Births In multiple inheritances. One class can have more than one superclass and inherit features from all parent classes. If you look at the screen again, you see that the class road bike is derived from interfaces vehicle and bicycle. Now, I want you to make a note here that Java doesn't support multiple inheritances with classes. So in Java we can achieve multiple inheritances, but only through interfaces. And again we're going to get to interfaces in some upcoming videos. So don't worry about it. Just know it. And that brings us to hybrid inheritance. This is a mix of two or more multiple inheritances. Now in the example on the screen the vehicle class is the superclass. The motorcycle and bicycle classes are the subclasses of the vehicle class. but you see, they are the superclass of the scooter class. Now, since Java doesn't support multiple inheritances with classes, hybrid inheritance is also not possible with classes. But in Java, we can achieve a hybrid inheritance only through interfaces. And again, we'll get to that later. Just know it exists. Now that's a lot of theory right? But now you kind of sort of are more familiar with the theory of inheritance. So why don't we just get to some practice and you can get some real understanding. So we're going to start to write a program that prints the properties of subclasses by using inheritance. So that means I will first create a superclass in the object Oriented Programming project. And we'll name the package inheritance. The class name will be animals. Now this class will have some methods, right? So using the inheritance we will reuse these properties and subclasses that we'll create in a well soon. So the animals class will be the superclass. Let's declare four methods with four access modifiers in the animals class. First method is private void eat. This method will take a string animals parameter. And in this method I will show the animals eat food message on the console here. Okay, now the first method is ready. So let's go ahead and create the second method protected void drink. This method will also take the string animals parameter. This method will print the animals drink water message. And let's create the third method. Void move. String. Animals. All right. So the message will be animals move. And for the last method we'll make it public void breath. For the parameter I'll just write string animals. And the message will be animals. Almost breathe. So now we can get started declaring subclasses. So I'll create a new class in the inheritance package. I will specify the class name dog. This class will be a subclass and it will inherit from the animals class that we created earlier. So to implement this inheritance we have to add the extends keyword after the class name. Okay. Okay. So now our subclass dog extends superclass animals. This just means that the subclass dog inherits the methods and variables from the superclass animals. All right. Now currently the dog class is empty, but we can also add in a few fields to this class because this class can have its own properties, remember? So why don't we, for example, just add in a method. Public void park. And let's print the message. Dogs bark. Okay. Let's create another subclass in the inheritance package. But this time I will specify the class name bird. This class will also be a subclass, and it will inherit from the animals class that we created. So to implement inheritance here, what do we do? Yeah, we just add the extends keyword after the class name. Okay. Now our subclass bird extends superclass animals. This means it. Subclass bird inherits the methods and variables from the superclass Animals. Good good good. Now, currently the bird class is empty, but we can also add some fields to this class because this class can have its own properties. So for example, let's add a method. Public void fly. And I will print the birds fly message. All right. Now we got to create a new class for the test right. So here I will specify the class name to be Test Inheritance. Now here I want to first create a new dog object in the main method. Dog. Dog equals new dog. If you type dog object and put a dot. Yeah, you can see the methods. Breathe, drink and move. They come up from the superclass animals. We can also see the bark method of the dog class itself. But do you notice we cannot see the eat method? Because the access modifier of the eat method is private and the private fields cannot be inherited. I want to make that important point clear. Right. You got to pay attention to that. So that means let's go back and change the access modifier of the eat method, and let's change it to public. All righty. Now let's continue. And there you can see after changing the access modifier the eat method we can now access it. And I'll call the eat method as a parameter I will write dogs. All right let's go ahead and call the other methods as well. Dog dot. Drink. Dogs. Dog. Breath. Dogs. Dog. Move. Dogs. Right. So these methods come from the superclass animals. Now let's go ahead and call the dog classes. Own method dog bark. All right. So now let's run that code. And there you see the results in the console. Dogs eat food. Dogs drink water. Dogs breathe, dogs move and dogs bark. Now, except for the bark method, all of these methods are inherited from the superclass animals. Very good, my friends. So let's move on and we'll create a new bird object. Bird. Bird equals new bird. And I write bird dot. Now, after the dot, you can see the same methods coming from the superclass animals. So let's go ahead and call the methods bird. Bird. Bird. Dot. Drink. Birds. Bird dot. Breathe. Birds. Bird. Dot. Move. Bird. All right. So these methods of course, come from the superclass animals. So let's go ahead and call the bird class's own method. Bird fly. Now let's run that code and look at the results in your console. Birds eat food. Birds drink water. Birds breathe. Birds move. Birds fly. And of course, except for that fly method, all of these methods are inherited from the superclass animals. Now, I wonder if you're actually thinking. Wait a minute. Our only methods inherited from the superclass. Well, that is a good question. But no, you can also inherit instance variables. For example, let's just create a variable in the animals class that defines the number of legs int number of legs. Now let's create a method to print the number of legs. Public void print legs. S out. Double quotes. Number of legs plus number of legs. Now let's call this property in the main method. So for the dog I'll write dog dot number of legs. So now you can see we have access to the number of legs property. All right. So let's pass for for the dog. And I will call the print method dog dot print legs. Now I'll call this property for the bird. Bird dot number of legs equals two. Let's print it. Bird dot print. And let's test the project one more time. There. You see, we printed the number of legs of both the dog and the bird. So we could access the methods and the variables of the superclass animals. So far, so good. Yeah, that is, my friends, the concept of inheritance. We're going to take a short break here, and I look forward to seeing you in the next video.

=== 3. Sealed Class ===
All right. Welcome welcome, welcome. So in the previous video we talked about the inheritance in detail. So that means this time around we're going to talk about this class that is sealed. The sealed class right now I'm sure you remember that when we're talking about inheritance, a class in Java other than the object class could actually inherit from another class. But you got to remember, there are also some exceptions. So for example, sometimes you may want only certain classes to inherit from the class you created. So in that case, sealed classes will come to our aid. All right. So let's dig into the details just a little bit more. Now. Sealed classes were actually introduced in Java 15. And this feature is actually about enabling more fine grained inheritance control within Java. So sealing allows classes and interfaces to define their permitted subtypes. So in other words, a class or an interface can now define which classes can implement or extend it. Very useful, especially for domain modeling and increasing the security of libraries. All right. If you remember, one of the primary purposes of inheritance is code reuse. So when you want to create a new class, and there's already a class that includes some of the code that you want, you can derive your new class from the existing class. And then in doing this, you can reuse the fields and methods of the existing class without having to write and debug all of that yourself. Now what if you want to model the various possibilities that exist in a domain by defining its entities and then determining how these entities should relate to each other? So let's say, for example, you're working on a graphics Library, and you want to determine how your library should handle common geometric primitives like circles and squares. You've created a shape class that these geometric primitives can extend from. However, you're really not interested in allowing any arbitrary class to extend shape, and you don't want clients of your library declaring any further primitives. So by sealing that particular class, you can specify which classes are permitted to extend it and then prevent any other arbitrary class from doing that. So how can we do this? How do you make a class sealed? Let's have a look at this. The sealed class. Add the sealed modifier to its declaration and then after any extends and implements clauses, add the permits clause. So this clause actually specifies the classes that may extend the sealed Class. Now for a moment if you will have a look at the example here. So the animals class, it's marked as sealed and it specifies three permitted subclasses. You got your dog, your cat and a bird. So naturally in this case, the animal's class is a sealed class and only the dog, the cat, and the bird classes can then inherit from that animals class. So other than these three classes, other classes are not able to inherit from that animals class. All right, my friends, that's the theory. All about sealed classes. Let's do another quick example of this and follow along. So I want to create a new class and package in the object oriented programming project. And we're going to make this package name be sealed classes. And I will specify the name of the class. And that's going to be animals. All right. So the animals class will be our super class. All right. There's a super class ready. So I want to create now for subclasses. The name of the first class will be dog. Okay. Now I want to extend the animals class. And as you can see, to extend it, there's no problem. But what we'll do here is create the second subclass. Name of the second class will be cat. And I'll also extend the animals class. I'll create a third subclass. And the name of this class is going to be bird. So I'll just extend the animals class again. All right. So there you see the classes named dog, cat and bird are inherited from the animals class C. So now they can actually use the properties in the animals class. But there's more here. So let's create a different class. And the name of this class can be car. And now this class inherits from the animals class okay. And as you can see another class unrelated to animals can also inherit from the animals class. And wait. What? That's not what we want, is it correct? This is an undesirable situation when you're programming. So in order to avoid this confusion and create more meaningful classes, the sealed class makes our job a whole lot easier. See, especially when you're working on large projects, you're going to be very grateful that this exists. So let me show you what we're talking about. Let's seal the animals class and permit only the dog, the cat, and the bird classes to inherit it. So for that, I will open the animals class, and right before the class name, I'm going to just write the keyword sealed. So now I've got to specify the permitted classes after the class name. Right. So I'll just first write permits from the keyword. And then I'll write the names of the classes that I want to permit. So I'll write dog comma I'll write cat and I'll do another comma. Write bird. You can see the compiler throws a few errors and there's a reason for this. Don't get too excited though. So let's say, for example, we'll open up the dog class. And just hover your mouse over the word dog. You see the following error. So the class dog with a sealed direct superclass or a sealed direct super interface, animals should be declared either final sealed or non sealed. Right. So in other words, we need to define the dog class, or rather a class that inherits the sealed class as a final a sealed or non sealed class. You see why. Let's break it down. The purpose of the sealing feature is to inherit only the desired classes. So if we don't want to define this class with any of these three different shapes, the classes that we don't want in this example, the car class can inherit from the permitted classes. So for this example from the dog class right. Okay. And of course it's going to inherit the animals class. Now what we're talking about inheritance types. Previously we were talking about multi-level inheritance. That basically means that a class could inherit the properties of its parent class's parent class. Right? This goes up a couple of levels. But to prevent this, we must make one of these three definitions here. You follow. Right. Now usually this class is prevented from inheriting with the keyword final. And that's why I will choose the change dog to final option. All right. So we're going to talk more about the final keyword later on, and we'll get to more details about that later. Just know that it works here. And similarly, let's go ahead and do cat and bird classes. We'll make them final as well. Now you see the compilation errors disappear, but the error in the car class is still there. And that's because we didn't allow the car class to inherit from the animals class. So by using this ceiling feature, we inherited only the classes that we wanted to. Other classes can no longer inherit from the animals class. So I can now delete the extend animal statement from the car class. All right. So that's how you use sealed classes. We're going to take a short break here though and see you next time.

=== 4. Method Overriding ===
Well hello there. Welcome back. So in this video we're going to talk about the method overriding. I wonder if you remember we talked about method overloading in the previous videos. But if the methods have the same name but different parameters that is remember method overloading. So wait a minute, this is something completely different. What the heck is method overriding? So if you define a method in a subclass that is already defined in the superclass with the same name, same parameter, and the same return type, that is known as method overriding. So in this case, the method in the superclass is called an overridden method, and the method in the subclass is called the overriding method. So let's just do a simple example to understand it better. So let's say we have two classes, right a superclass vehicle and a subclass car. The car class extends the vehicle class. Now both of the two classes have a common method. Right. The void stop. The car class gives its characteristic to the stop method, so it overrides the stop method. It prints the car has stopped instead of the vehicle has stopped. Got it. Cool. Let's do up some examples so that you can play along with me and understand the benefits of method overriding. In Object Oriented Programming project. I will right click on the source folder, select new package. I want to specify the package name as method overriding. And now I will create a Java class in this package. The class name will be vehicle and the class vehicle will be our superclass. And then let's declare three public void methods in the vehicle class. First one is public void start. We print the vehicle has started message using the print method. And then the second one is public void accelerate. So this method takes one parameter that's named speed. And then we can print vehicle accelerates according to given speed. And then we use the speed variable in the print method. And then the last method is stop. In the stop method, we print vehicle has stopped as our message by using the print method. Right. Now let's create a new subclass. So just right click on the method overriding package and select new class. Specify class name as car. And in order to implement the method overriding we have to add extends as our keyword after subclass car. Now our subclass car extends the superclass vehicle. So this means that subclass car inherits all the methods from the superclass vehicle, and the car class is empty now. So the question is, why do we need this method? Overriding what we'll do here is a let's create a main test class that we'll name override test in the same package. So in the main method we create a vehicle object. First we call the start method from the vehicle class. And then we call the accelerate method by passing the value of 80 of speed as a parameter. And then the last we'll call the stop method. Okay, so let's run the code. So you see the results in the console? Yeah. The vehicle has started. Vehicle accelerate at a speed of 80 and the vehicle has stopped. Now let's create a car object to test. And we call the start method. And then call the accelerate method by passing the speed value of 100 as a parameter. And then call the stop method. Okay. So let's run the code and you see the same results. The vehicle has started. Vehicle accelerates at a speed of 100 and the vehicle is stopped. But now. Do you see it? There is a problem. We wait on properties of car, not vehicle in the second part. So we need to override the methods of the superclass vehicle in the subclass car. So let's override these methods and you'll see what I mean. Now let's copy the methods of the superclass vehicle. And let's make the changes for implementing the properties of the car class. So we print car has started in the start method instead of vehicle. And we print car accelerates according to given speed instead of vehicle. Then we print the car has stopped in the stop method instead of vehicle. So you see what I'm doing here? The these three methods have the same name, same parameter and same return type with methods in the vehicle class. This is a rule for overriding. All right. So let's open the main class override test. And let's run the code. And you see two different messages coming from the methods of classes. In the first part we display messages from the superclass vehicle. In the second part, since we override the methods of the superclass vehicle in the class car. Car has started. Car accelerates at speed 100 and the car has stopped. Are the messages that are displayed. So I hope that's clear as mud and you understand method overriding. It's very useful. Anyway, before I let you go, I would like to draw your attention to one more small point. The rule for overriding must be the same return type, the same method name, and the same parameter requirement. Uh, what about the access modifier? Could it be an access modifier difference? So did you notice in our example, the access modifiers of the methods in both the superclass and subclass are the same. So let's try to change them and see what happens. Let's move on to the car class first. For example, let's make the start method private. So you can see right we're getting an error. It says cannot reduce the visibility of the inherited method from vehicle. Well what if we change this to protected. Yeah we get the same error again. The reason for this is that there is a ranking among the access modifiers. We've mentioned this before, but here's why this is important. The most restrictive is private. The least restrictive is public. Therefore, if you define the methods in the superclasses public, then the methods in the subclass must also be public. Otherwise you get this error. Okay, but the following is true. If you make the methods access modifier protected or default in the vehicle class, you have the chance to change it here as well. But if you make it private, you cannot inherit this. Okay, so in fact let's just see this right in the example. So for example let's define the start method in the vehicle class as default. Now let's switch to the car class and change the modifier of the start method. So if we make it public, it works. If we make it protected, it'll still work. If we make it default, it'll still work. But if we make it private, not going to work. We get our friend the compilation error. Right? So as a result, the return type, method, name and parameter must be the same for overriding the access modifier need not be the same, but the restrict order is important. The most restrictive is private, then default, then protected, and the least restrictive is public. All right. Just wanted to make that very important point. And now you'll remember it for the rest of your life. Wonderful. Okay. So that is method overriding. We got more for you though. Stick around for the next video. I'll see you then.

=== 5. “super” and “this” Keywords - Part 1 ===
All right, my friends. Welcome back. So you have now reached the part of the course where we can talk about the super and this. These are both keywords in Java. Welcome to a whole other world. Super is a keyword that's used to access the superclass. Members from the subclass super as a keyword gives us simple access to constructors, fields and methods of the superclass. So in our example, subclass car class is using a super keyword to access stop method of the superclass vehicle, right? This keyword is used to access the same class members inside the same subclass. And our example subclass car class is using this keyword to access its own start method, so we can also access other members of this class, such as variables and constructors using similar methods. So let's check out the purposes of using the this keyword. Now obviously there can be a lot of usage of this in Java. This is a keyword but it's actually a reference variable. So it refers to the current class members. This keyword can be used to refer current class instance variable. This keyword can be used to invoke the current class method implicitly. This call can be used to invoke the current class constructor. This can be passed as an argument in the method call. This can be passed as an argument in the constructor call. This can be used to return the current class instance from the method. Pretty doggone useful, wouldn't you say? Why don't we get some practice time with the this keyword? First up, I want to create a new package and Java class. Let the package name be example this. Let the class name be this keyword. And I want to add the main method. So now let's create two instance variables of this class. String car. int year. And I'll create the constructor of this class public this keyword. And for the parameter of this constructor I'll write string car int year. And in the constructor I write car equals car. Year equals year. Now let's reach these objects from the main method using the reference object of this class. This keyword Myobject equals new this keyword. And for the car and year parameters I'll write Ferrari and 2025. Okay, now I want to access the car in year variable using the Myobject and print them on the console. After the plus sign, I'll write Myobject dot car. I will duplicate this line once and these will be year. Okay, so do you think, just hypothetically speaking, do you think that we'll be able to see Ferrari in 2025 values on the console screen when we run the application? You're right. No, we won't be able to see it. So let's run it and just have a look. Observation is key. So yeah you can see the car is null and the year is zero. But actually these values are the default values of car and year variables. So there are no values assigned to these variables. So wait a minute. What's the reason for this. Let me show you. So if we look inside the constructor When I click on the variable car, it references the parameter car variable. When I click on the year variable, it still references the parameter year variable C. In other words, it does not reference the car and year variables here, which are instances of this class. This, my friends, is where the this keyword comes into play. So if we want the car and year variables here to reference instances of this class, we should use the this keyword at the very beginning of each variable. Let's go ahead and fix that now. This will be this car and this one will be this dot year. All right. Now if you notice this car now references the car which is the instance of this class. The year here also refers to year which is also an instance of this class and the car and the year to the right of the equal sign refer to the variables that are parameters. Now you probably want to see what happens next. Let's run it and test it out. All right so we see Ferrari and 2025 as our values on the console screen. So why do we actually have to use the this keyword. Well don't worry I'll help you out with it. A deeper question is how can we do the same without using this for a keyword? Okay, now you're getting to it. If the names of the parameters in the constructor and the variables that are instances are different from each other, then you won't be able to use the this keyword, right? So for example, instead of the year parameter in the constructor I'll write model. And I'm removing the this keyword from here. Now let's run the application once more. You see that the result is the same. So let me just break it down. In fact, here the compiler automatically adds this for the keyword during compilation. But since the instance and the parameter have different names, the compiler does not confuse what the variable here is referencing. Got it. So in short, the thing to keep in mind is that if the instance name in a class and the parameter name in the constructor are the same, then we use the this keyword to avoid any confusion that this keyword tells the compiler that this variable references the instance in the class. If the names are different, the compiler itself can distinguish them, and there's no need to do this. But common usage is to use the this keyword inside the constructor. Far out. In fact, let's have a look at a different usage of the this keyword. For example, let's create two methods in this class that will print Hello World to the console. We'll let the first method be called print hello. This method will print only the word hello. Let's copy and paste this method. Let the name of the method be Print world and this method will print the word world. And I'm changing this message to world. So now I'll call the second method in the first method just below the print method. In fact, this is the method calling that we've done so far that you may be familiar with. But if we want to, we can use the this keyword here as well. See what we're doing. In fact, the compiler already puts it in automatically the compiling stage. But since there's no other method with that name in this class anyway, the compiler is not confused and we don't need to use this keyword for that. I just wanted you to see that there is such a use. Okay, now here the this keyword again references this class. And that is what this line tells the compiler. Go to the this keyword class and call the print world method inside that class. Okay, let's now finally call this method inside the main method Myobject dot print. Hello. And let's go ahead and test the application. There you see we have now printed Hello World! So finally, we can have a look at the use of the this keyword as a constructor call. First, let's create the default or empty or Parameterless constructor of this class. So the default constructor does not take any parameters. Now let's use the this keyword which acts as a call in this constructor. And if you notice I'm using parentheses after this here. So using the this keyword like this means calling the default constructor of this class. So if you pay attention we will get an error here if we leave it like this because a recursive constructor call occurred here. So in other words, we are calling the default constructor once again inside the default constructor itself. And that is going to create what's known as a recursive loop, so that this keyword will call the default constructor. And the default constructor will call the this call again. And so on. It goes round and round. So if we were to leave it that way we would get a compilation error. So why don't we just assign values corresponding to the instances of this class in parentheses. So we'll let the car be BMW. Let the model be 2026. Okay. So as such this actually references the two parameters constructor here. Right. If you press a control key on the keyboard and click the this word here, it's going to take you to the constructor here. Also if we delete the parameters here while creating the object of this class. In the main method, we'll no longer get an error. Yeah, because with this call we have already assigned values to car and model variables. Well, if you don't believe me, let's try it and test it out. All right, we'll have a look. We see BMW and 2026 for the values on the console screen. So in short we could also use the this keyword as the constructor call. But you got to remember to avoid recursive looping of your code if you do happen to use it. So for example, let's use the this keyword as the call and the two parameters constructor. Okay, so you've noticed that we've got a compilation error again because this we right here calls the default constructor. And that is the parameter less constructor. When we go to the default constructor there is this which calls the two parameters constructor. So we constantly go back and forth between the default and the two parameter constructors. Doesn't that just cause your compilation to error? Well, yes it does. Now, before I let you go, I do want to mention one more thing. We cannot use the keyword this which acts as a call everywhere. So for example, let's just try to use it in the print world method here. You got to notice that we get a compilation error right. It says call to this call only allowed in constructor body. Therefore it should only be used within constructors and before any other code in the constructor. It should also be the first element in the constructor. You got to pay attention to that one. All right my friends. There you go. Different usages of the this keyword. In fact, why don't we take a break here and we'll come back in the next video. See you on the other side.

=== 6. “super” and “this” Keywords - Part 2 ===
All right, all right, all right. Hello my friends. Welcome back. So in the previous video we talked about the this keyword. So in this video why don't we just talk about the super keyword and the super call now, in fact, it actually wouldn't be wrong to say the keyword super and this or logically similar to each other, but the difference is that the this keyword refers to the class it is in, while the super keyword refers to the super class it inherits. So again, this call statement references the constructors of its class, while the super call statement references the constructors of the superclass it inherits. So the super keyword in Java is a reference variable which is used to refer to a parent class object. All right. So we can actually use the super keyword basically three different ways to refer to the parent class instance variable to invoke the parent class method, and the super call expression can be used to invoke the parent class constructor. Now let's get some practice. So I want to create a new package and class. Let the package name be example super. Let the class name be cars. This will be our super class. First I want to use the super keyword to access the superclass instance, and for this I'll just create an instance of this class. Boolean is automatic equal false. Now I'll create a subclass. Now the class name be Ferrari. This class will extend the cars class. So I write extend cars after the class name. I'll also create an instance variable of this class. Boolean is automatic equal true. Also, I'll create a print method to print the boolean values on the console. Public void print gear. First I'll print the is automatic instance variable of the subclass Ferrari. Now let's print the is automatic instance variable of the superclass cars. To call the is automatic instance of the superclass, I'll just use the super keyword. So super dot is automatic. So here the super keyword References the superclass cars, so the cars and Ferrari. Both classes have a common property is automatic, right? If we print the Isautomatic property, it will print the isautomatic of the current class by default. And to access the parent class property, we would need to use the super keyword here. So let's go ahead and test it out. At the name of the test class B main test. Now I'll add the main method. And now I'll create an object of the Ferrari class. And I'll just call the print gear method. Now let's run that code. So what you're looking at is the true and the false are printed on the console. So we use the super keyword to access the instance of the superclass. Okay. Now let's use the super keyword to access the methods of the superclass, and I will open the superclass cars. The super keyword can also be used to invoke the methods of the superclass. Right now it should be used if the subclass contains the same method as the parent class. So in other words, it gets used if the method is overridden. Now I'm sure we don't need to go over method overriding again. Okay. So I just want to create a method in the superclass. Public void accelerate. And this method will print the cars accelerate on the console. And now let's open up the subclass Ferrari. In this class I want to create three methods. The first one will be the overriding method. So I write public void accelerate. I'll print. The Ferrari accelerates faster. And the second method will be the own method of this subclass. Public void speed. And I will print. The Ferrari reaches 300 speed. In the third method will be the printing of this statement on the console. Public void display. So first I will call the speed method of this class. Now let's call the accelerate method of the superclass. And for this I'll use the super keyword super dot accelerate. Lastly, let's just call the accelerate method of this class. All right. Now the cars and Ferrari classes have the accelerate method. If we call the accelerate method like that, it will call the accelerate method of this class by default. In fact, you do remember right from the previous lesson, the compiler automatically puts the this keyword in front of it because there's only one method with this name in this class, and the compiler does not get confused when calling this method. Therefore, it is enough to use only the method name, and as a result, when we write it like this, the accelerate method in this class will be called. But my friends to call the accelerate method of the parent class. That's when we need to use the super keyword. So in fact, let me just show you. Open up the main test class in the main method. I'll disable this line and I will call the display method of the subclass Ferrari. Now let's run it and test it. There you see. First the Ferrari reaches 300. Speed is printed. Then the cars accelerate, is printed. And this message comes from the superclass. And then lastly, Ferrari accelerates faster, gets printed. So see that we use the super keyword to access the method of the superclass. All right. So now let's use the super call to invoke the constructor of the super class. So for that I will open the superclass cars. So this keyword super can also be used to invoke the constructor of the superclass. So for this we use the super call statement. So first I'll create the default constructor of this class. And I will print the default constructor of the superclass expression to the console. Now I'll open the Ferrari class, and here I'll just create the default constructor of this class. And I'll call the super call statement. This will invoke the constructor of the superclass. Also, I'll print this message to the console default constructor of the subclass. All right. So when the constructor of this class is invoked. First, the constructor of the superclass will be called, and then this expression will be printed on the console. So let's test it out. Open up the main test class. I'll just disable this line and let's run the app. Okay, so as you can see, first the constructor of the superclass is called. Then the constructor of the subclass is called. So that's how you learn how to use the super call statement as well. What do you think. So to summarize all this, the general usage logic of the super keyword goes like this. With the super keyword, we can access the members of the superclass, that is methods and variables. But with a super call we can initialize the superclass constructor. Okay, good. Now let's take a short break and we'll continue in the next video. See you then.

=== 7. “super” and “this” Keywords - Part 3 ===
Well. Hello my friends. Welcome back. So in the previous couple of videos we learned how to use a keywords this and super and the expressions this call and super call. So why don't we in this video reinforce the use of these two keywords with a few small examples. And then we'll wrap up this topic. So come on let's do it. Let's make some examples by using super and this for keywords. So I want to first create a new package. Let the package name be super this. And I'll create a new Java class in this package. Let the class name be vehicle. Vehicle will be super class. So let's declare three instance variables in the vehicle class. We declare two variables that are named type and model with a string type. And the variable maxspeed with int type. Let's declare a public constructor that's named vehicle. And we'll give it three parameters type, model and Maxspeed. So in the constructor method we can assign a parameter variable type to the variable type of this class. Now remember that this keyword represents the vehicle class. And this type is the instance variable of this class. But the type we wrote after the equals sign is the parameter of the constructor. So its value will come outside of this class when we create an object from the vehicle class. Okay, so as a result, the this keyword indicates the class it is in. Now let's continue. Secondly, I will assign the parameter variable model to the variable model of this class. And then lastly we assign the parameter variable maxspeed to the variable maxspeed of this class. So we use the this keyword to access the same class variables. Let's generate public getter methods of these variables to access from the main method. And we will touch on the getter and setter methods in detail later on in the encapsulation video, but for now, just roll with it. My friends, it's all good. So in order to generate getter methods, we right click on the empty space here. Select the Generate and Getter guitar options. I'll choose all variables and then click on the okay button. And this way getter methods for all variables is generated automatically. Okay let's create a new subclass. So I'll right click on the Super This package and select new. And then Java class. I'll specify the class name to be car. Our subclass car will extend superclass vehicle. And this just means that subclass car inherits all methods and variables from the superclass vehicle. But I wonder if you notice this time we got that compilation error. Well, if you happen to place a mouse pointer on a car class, IntelliJ shows us a quick fix dialog. It says there is no parameter less constructor available in vehicle. Now think back. Do you remember back in the inheritance video we said that the subclass cannot inherit the constructor of the superclass, but the constructor of the superclass can be invoked in the subclass. So if the superclass has a constructor with a parameter, you should add it into the subclass. Or for another way, you have to create a default constructor in the superclass. Yeah, let's try it out. So I'll add a default constructor to the vehicle class. Now let's go back to the car class. And there you see. What do you mean what compilation error. All right. So now I'm going to delete the default constructor of the vehicle class. So now there's a constructor with parameters in the superclass vehicle. So we must define an explicit constructor in the subclass car. Now we must invoke the constructor of the superclass from the constructor of the subclass car by using the super keyword. We can add the constructor by selecting create constructor matching super in the Quickfix dialog of IntelliJ. And there you see my friends, IntelliJ automatically adds a constructor with the super keyword. Nice. Notice also that after the keyword super, there's parenthesis, and in the parenthesis there are parameters in the vehicle class. This is called a super call. So in fact I'll add this as a comment calling the constructor of the super class. So in other words, when we try to create an object from the car class. It will first ask us for the parameters here. Then when we enter the required parameter values, it will assign these parameter values to the relevant properties of the superclass specified here. So thanks to the getter method in the vehicle class, we'll be able to take the assigned values and use them. Okay good. Let's continue. Let's declare the variable is automatic with the boolean type. So its initial value is false. Then we add the variable is automatic to the constructor of the car class as a fourth parameter. And then we assign a parameter variable is automatic to the variable is automatic of this class. Now we need to generate a getter method again of the variable is automatic in order to access it from the main method, right? And I know you like to do this. So we generate the getter method of the variable using the same way we did before. And let's create a main task class that's named super. This test in the same package. Now in the main method we create a car object by passing parameters. The first parameter car represents type of car. Second parameter Ferrari represents model of car. The third parameter 320, represents the max speed of car and the last parameter true represents is automatic of that car. So we print the properties of the car class by using the print method. And in the first print method, we display the type of car and invoke the get type method from the superclass vehicle. In the second print method, we display the model of the car and invoke the Getmodel method from the superclass vehicle. And in the third print method, we display the max speed of the car and invoke the get max speed method from the superclass vehicle. Now, in the last print method, we display the is car, automatic or not. So we invoke the is automatic Method from the subclass car. Great. Okay. It looks great. So let's. Let's run the code. And you see the results right here in the console. Type is car, model is Ferrari and the max speed is 320. And these properties come from the superclass vehicle. But car is automatic is true. That's right. Because this property comes from the subclass car. Now, the thing to keep in mind here though, is that with a keyword super, you point to a superclass. But with a this keyword, you point to the class you're in. All right, let's take a short break. We'll continue in the next video. See you then.

=== 8. “final” Keyword ===
All right. Hello there my friends. Welcome back. So in this video we're going to talk about the final keyword. It's not the final keyword but it is final as a keyword. Now as I hope that you remember. And I'm sure that you understood at the time. In the inheritance subject, the inheritance provides reusing existing codes. But sometimes we need to limit some of the properties for, well, many, many reasons. The final keyword allows us to do this. So it's a think of it as a limiter. In this section we will look at what the final keyword actually means for classes, methods as well as variables. The final keyword can be implemented in class methods and variables. Final classes cannot be extended. So if we try to inherit from a final class, we get a compile error. Java core libraries have many final classes. Final methods cannot be overridden. So when we design a superclass and we want to make sure that the method in this class won't be overridden, we'll make this method final. Final variables cannot be altered, so we can initialize a final variable, but we cannot reassign a new value. So final variables are used to create constant variables. Okay great. So let's do some examples so that we can both understand this a little bit better. In the Object Oriented Programming project right click on the source folder and select New and Package. Specify package name as final keyword. And let's create a Java class in this package. Its name is going to be vehicle and the vehicle class will be superclass. Now let's declare an instance variable that's named model with a string type in vehicle class. And let's declare a void method show Maxspeed. And then we print Maxspeed of vehicle is 180. As a message now using the print method. Okay. So now we can create a new subclass. So right click on the final keyword package and select new class. Specify the class name as car. So our subclass car extends superclass vehicle. So this means that the subclass car inherits the show Maxspeed method and the model variable from the superclass vehicle. Now in the car class, we can override the Maxspeed method of the superclass vehicle. And we can print the message Maxspeed of car is 320 by using the print method. Okay, now we can deal with the final keyword. So we want to limit some properties by using the final keyword. That's what it's for. So let's open up the vehicle class. So for example we can add the final keyword to the class definition of superclass vehicle. You can write it before or after the access modifier. There's not a problem with it. Okay, so now the vehicle class is a final class. Now let's open up the car class and observe the changes. So there you see. We get our old friend the compilation error. Now let's have a look at it by placing the mouse pointer on vehicle. All right. So the error message is cannot inherit from final class vehicle. So final classes cannot be extended. Okay. So we select the make vehicle not final. And now you see IntelliJ automatically removes the final keyword from the vehicle class. All right. So now let's make the show Maxspeed method final. So you just add the final keyword after the access modifier. So now this method is the final method, right? Well, now let's open up the car class and observe the changes. What? It's our old friend. The compilation error. Well, let's have a look. Just hover over the show Maxspeed method. So what is the error message? Say? Show Maxspeed method cannot override show max speed method in the vehicle class because the overridden method is final. So what does that tell you? Final methods cannot be overridden. So we select the make show Maxspeed method, not final. And then that goes away right. So we understand now the usage of the final keyword on classes and methods. But let's see how to use it on variables. In fact let's create the main test class named final test in the same package. In the main method we create a car object. And before accessing the instance variable of the vehicle class, let's open the vehicle class and add the final keyword to the variable model. Now also we have to initialize this variable because the final keyword makes the variables constant. So the variables must contain a value, and this value should be constant for the variable with the final keyword. Get it? So we can initialize this string with double quotes. Let's open up the main class again. If we try to assign the Ferrari value to the variable model, we get a compilation error. So let's have a look. Just hover over the model variable. Okay. So the error message says cannot assign a value to final variable model. So what does that mean. Final variables cannot be altered. Therefore a variable created using the final keyword is now called a constant. So what do we do? Select the make model, not final. Now we can access and change the instance of the superclass. All right. Secondly let's call the show Maxspeed method. All right. Let's run this code. And you see the result in the console overridden show Maxspeed method is invoked and it displays the max speed of the car is 320. So what do you say? That's the purpose of the final keyword and how to use it. But we got to focus on the final variables, and also take a closer look at how the final keyword affects the variables. All right. So first let's just get all of this code here off into a comment line. Okay. So now let's define a final static variable in the test class. Public static final. Int number equals ten. Now we usually write the final variables with capital letters. And if it consists of two or more words we separate the words with an underscore. It's not absolutely mandatory but it is a convention. Also you can change the order of the public static and final keywords, and you're not going to get any errors. Okay. So that's that's for nothing. Now let's just decrease the value of the number variable in the main method and transfer it to another variable. Int number two equals number minus minus. But as you can see we got a compilation error because the variable number is final and cannot be changed. So the usage is invalid. But it is valid if you were to write it like this. Int number two equals number. And end number three equals number two minus minus. So if you notice here the final variable number is still the same. But we can transfer the value of the number to another variable and work on that variable. We can also directly use the final variable number in mathematical operations. So for example the following usage would be valid int result equals number divided by two. Because the value of the number is not changed, it is still the same, right? Also, you can use a final int variables in loops. For example, for int x equals zero x less than the number. X plus plus. And let's print the value of the X on the console. Let's run it and see. Look at that, my friends. You can see now that we can print the values of x. So we can use the constant variable inside loops. Also you can use it with arrays. Might as well string square brackets. Animal list. Equals new string. Square brackets number. So you see this usage is also valid. The size of this array will be ten. But let me show you yet another thing with an array list. Actually we haven't talked about array list yet, but I'll just I'll just do a really quickly. I want to show you something small. But you do remember though, that we used to set the size of the arrays first and then we couldn't change the size of the array later. But working with lists, you don't have to work like that. So you can actually add elements to a list later. So knowing that we can take advantage of this feature, I'll tell you about the use of the final keyword though with lists. Here we go. So we'll create a new array list. Public final static array list. I'm selecting array list from the Java.util package. Let this be an array. List of string. Let the name of this list be animals. Now let's initialize this. I write new ArrayList after the equals sign. Now let's try to add a few elements into this list in the main method. Animals. Dot. Add cat. Animals. Dot. Add. Dog. Animals. Dot. Add. Lion. And as you can see, it's possible to add elements to a list created with a final keyword. But look at what is not possible. Animals equals new array list. Yeah, this is invalid because here an attempt is made to assign a new object to the variable animals and the final variables cannot be altered. That's why we get Mr. compilation error here. All right, my friends, that is how you use the keyword final. All right. It's going to be very useful for you, especially if you want to pass that exam. All right, my friends, I'll see you in the next video.

=== 9. abstract Keyword ===
And here we are. Hi there. Welcome back. So in this video we need to address abstract classes. So an abstract class is used to implement common features of related classes. So it's declared with the abstract keyword. If a class has at least one abstract method then the class must be declared abstract. Also, abstract classes may contain non-abstract methods and variables. You cannot instantiate an abstract class. That means that you cannot create the object of it. So in order to use abstract as a class, we have to inherit it from another class. So you can think of an abstract class as like a template. you must extend it and override the abstract methods. An abstract method is also just a prototype, so it has no body and contains the following attributes. A return type. A method name and a list of parameters. Methods and members of an abstract class can be defined with any visibility such as public, protected, private, etc. so in our example, vehicle is an abstract class that contains only one abstract method. Get max speed right. Remember, it's got no body because the implementation of this method is provided by the car and motorcycle classes. You were wondering why that was empty, huh? No body. So the car and motorcycle classes have to override the abstract. Get Maxspeed method of the superclass vehicle. Okay, so I heard a couple of pennies drop. So let's do some examples and we can understand the abstract class a little better. In the Object Oriented Programming project, just right click on the source folder and select New and Package. Specifying the package name as abstract class. Let's create a new Java class in this package. The name will be vehicle. So vehicle is now only a Java class, not an abstract class. Okay. To make it abstract, all we need to do is use the abstract keyword before the class keyword. Or you can use it before the access modifier. No problem with that either. But in general the usage is before the class keyword. Okay. So the vehicle class is now an abstract class. Also this class will be our superclass abstract superclass. Now let's go ahead and declare two instance variables named type and model with a string type in the vehicle class. Also, you cannot create an abstract variable if you have the abstract keyword at the beginning of the variable, you're going to get a compilation error and it'll say modifier abstract not allowed here. All right. Just remember that. So let's declare a public constructor that's named vehicle. And it contains two parameters type and model. Now in the constructor method we can assign a parameter variable type to the variable type of this class. And then we assign parameter variable model to the variable model of this class. Now let's declare two Non-abstract void methods in the vehicle class. First one is public void start. And then we print vehicle has started by using our print method. So the second one is public void stop. And then we print the message vehicle has stopped by using the print method. Now we can declare an abstract int method that's named get Maxspeed with no body. If you put curly braces for the body, you will get a compilation error. So we must implement this method in the subclass that we're going to create in just a second. Hold on. Just want to say one more thing. You cannot define an abstract method as final or the access modifier cannot be private. So if you use both the abstract and final here, you're going to get a compilation error and it's going to say illegal combination of modifiers abstract and final. I mean, you can take my word for it or you can try it out for yourself. Don't be surprised. So what about if the access modifier is private? Yeah. We're going to get a compilation error again. And what does it say? Illegal combination of modifiers, abstract and private. Because this method must be inherited by the subclass. Do you remember you cannot inherit instances that you define as final or private. This is actually a very important point. Do I need to repeat it? You cannot inherit instances that you define as final or private. Now abstract classes can have a final method, but the keywords abstract and final cannot be used in the same method. You got that? Also, the access modifier of the abstract methods must be public, protected or default. Okay, now we can continue. So I'm going to create a new subclass. In the abstract class package I will specify the class name car. Our subclass car will extend the abstract superclass vehicle. And this just means that subclass car inherits all methods and variables from superclass vehicle. But as you can see, what's this compilation error because we defined a constructor in the abstract superclass vehicle. So we've got to define an explicit constructor in the subclass car. And we must invoke the superclass constructor from this constructor by using the super call. Now you got to remember we've done this just you know, well might not have been five minutes ago, but at least in one of the previous videos, probably two videos back. But you got to remember there was also a couple of ways to avoid this error. You don't have to go back there yet if you don't want to, because I'll show you. The first is going to be to create the default constructor in the vehicle class, because the default constructor will be called automatically by the compiler. You're not going to get an error like that anymore. Okay. Now the second way would be to create an explicit constructor in this class. So it's thanks to the super call statement in this constructor will be able to access the constructor parameters in the superclass. And as a result, if the superclass you inherit has a parameterized constructor, you must either create an explicit constructor with a super call in the subclass, or create the default constructor in the superclass to avoid this error in the subclass. Now either way is going to fix the error. But of course, would it really be more logical to apply whichever method your application necessitates? So what I said is yeah, just fix the error, but you got to keep that in mind. That's why you got to be flexible. Okay. Let's go ahead and continue. Now I'll just add that explicit Constructor. But wait, you can see we're still getting an error. I'll move the cursor on the car class again. And what does it say? Class car must either be declared abstract or implement abstract method. Get Maxspeed and vehicle. So that means you should either implement the abstract method in the abstract superclass or make the subclass abstract as well. All right, you got all that. Now let's just implement the abstract get Maxspeed method just by selecting the implement methods option. So from this window select the abstract method or methods and click the okay button. And there you see it gets overridden but with the override annotation. So let's talk a little bit about the annotation okay. Now annotations go all the way back to Java five. An annotation always starts with this at symbol followed by the annotation name okay. Now whenever you override a method of the superclass, it is best practice to always include the override annotation with a method name. Override annotation is also used for making code readable and avoiding maintenance issues. Okay, so now let's override other methods of superclass vehicle. Now there's absolutely no obligation to override non-abstract methods of the abstract superclass vehicle. You only need to override abstract methods so there's no such requirement for non-abstract ones. Okay. If you write the name of the method that you want to override, for example, let's write start. And if you select it from here, the method start is overridden automatically with the override annotation. Also note that the keyword super is used here as well. Super actually specifies that this method comes from the superclass and references the superclass. Now of course, we'll actually soon delete this super statement and rearrange it according to the car class. But you can override a method like that, or you can copy it from the superclass and paste it here. So after the pasting you can add the override annotation manually. So let's override the second Non-abstract method named stop manually if you want. I'll copy the Non-abstract stop method of the superclass vehicle. And I will paste it into the subclass car. Let's make changes for implementing properties of the car class now. So here's where I will delete the super keyword here and I'll use the car has started message in the start method instead of vehicle has started. And I'll use the car has stopped message and the stop method instead of vehicle has stopped. And then lastly let's add the override annotation to this method. In the get Maxspeed method, we declare a final variable max car speed in uppercase letters and then assign this variable to 320. Now it really is good to get in the practice to use final variables using all uppercase letters and underscores as a separator. So now we print maxspeed of car by using the print method. And then return the variable max car speed. Now let's create a main test class that's named abstract test in the same package. So in the main method we create a car object by passing parameters. The first parameter car represents the type of car. The second parameter Ferrari, represents the model of the car. Now let's call the overridden start and stop methods from the subclass car, and let's call the overridden abstract. Get Maxspeed method from the subclass car. Okay, so let's run the code and you can see the results right here in the console. Overridden start method was invoked and car has started is the message that we see displayed. And then the overridden stop method was invoked and the car has stopped. Message was displayed. And then the overridden abstract get Maxspeed method was invoked. and a max speed of car is 320. Message was displayed great. That's how you use the abstract class. Why don't we just take a look at some of the things to keep in mind about abstract classes, so that you can have all of them in the same place? It's probably a bit more complex than you bargained for earlier, huh? So here is what you need to know. An instance of an abstract class cannot be created. You can create constructors in the abstract classes. We can have an abstract class without any abstract method. There can be a final method in an abstract class, but an abstract method cannot be declared as final or private. We're not allowed to create objects for an abstract class. We can define static methods in an abstract class, but an abstract method cannot be declared as static. We can use the abstract keyword for declaring top level classes. Outer class as well as inner classes as abstract. If a class contains at least one abstract method, then compulsory should declare a class as abstract. So this means that you cannot define an abstract method in a normal Java class. If you want to define an abstract method, the class in which you will define the method should also be abstract. That is a whole lot about abstract class. But now you know what you need to know. Now you need to remember it. See you next time.

=== 10. Interface ===
And we're back, my friends. So previously we learned about abstract classes in Java. So that means it is now time in this video to cover the interfaces in Java. So then what exactly is an interface in Java? I'm glad you asked. It's basically a set of common behaviors that can be implemented by multiple classes. So what you're looking at is an example. And we first define the drivable interface okay. So this interface has two methods named turn left and turn right without the body. So the car and the motorcycle classes implement this interface. It just means that both classes can turn left and turn right right left right left. Well both nach okay. So turn left and turn right. These are methods and they've got to be implemented in car and motorcycle classes right. This is an obligation. Also, a Java class can implement multiple interfaces. So if a class implements more than one interface the interfaces have got to be separated by commas. Hopefully you remember we were talking way back in the inheritance video. A Java class cannot inherit two or more Java classes. Hmm. Well, to avoid this issue, we can implement more than one interface to a Java class. Pretty cool huh? So that's the main purpose of interfaces. Now, what you're looking at here is yeah, an example of two interfaces can eat and can drink. So the can eat interface has a method named can eat. And the can drink interface has a method named Can drink. Of course you remember our Java class named dog. The dog class implements these interfaces with the implements keyword. The interfaces are indeed separated by a comma, so it means that the dog class can eat and can drink, so can eat and can drink are the methods that must be implemented in the dog class. This is an obligation. Now let's try to list the features of the interface in items. All right. So you know that interfaces can only have constants and methods without a body. The interface cannot do anything. Basically it's just a pattern. So a Java class can implement multiple interfaces though this is possible. So if a class implements more than one interface the interfaces must then be separated by commas. By the way, you cannot instantiate an interface, and it basically means that you won't be able to create the object of it. An interface does not contain any constructors. Also, an interface is not extended by a class, it simply implemented by one or more classes. Oh yeah, an interface can be inherited from another interface, and a class of course can be extended and implement more than one interface at the same time. So the interface in Java is a mechanism to achieve abstraction. All right. So it's used to achieve abstraction and multiple inheritance in Java. So in other words you can say that interfaces can have abstract methods and variables. The difference between interface and abstract is that abstract classes may contain non-final variables, whereas variables in the interface are final public and or static. All right. So also it cannot have a method body, right? Java interfaces also represent the is a relationship. All right. So like a class an interface can have methods and variables. But the methods declared in an interface are by default abstract. And the variables are final by default. And that means instance variables in the interface must be initialized. So basically an interface simply says I can do these things and we give a promise to the compiler. But an interface is not going to say how to do it. All right. So that's a lot of information. Let's figure it out as we practice. All right. So here I just create a new package named Interface class. Now I'll create an interface in this package. Interface name will be Confed. Now this time I'll choose the interface option, not the class. You can also do this after creating the class, by the way. All right. So an interface will only declare method names without a body. So that means that we must implement all methods of the interface. So let's declare two void methods without the body in the can feed interface. Void can eat. And the methods inside an interface are public and abstract. And that's by default. Now you can write the public abstract at the beginning of the method, but you understand that's redundant. Also, a variable in the interface is public static final as default, and that just means all variables inside the interface are the constant by default. So if you see a declaration like that in an interface. Int type semicolon. This is invalid. You see that though because the variable is final by default. And you must initialize the final variables. All right. Just don't forget that. Now let's move on and I'll create the second method. Void can drink. Now I'll just create another interface. The name of this interface will be can fly. And what do you see? This is a Java class. So if I delete the class keyword and write interface instead. Now this is an interface, not a class okay. So now let's declare a void method without the body and the can fly interface. Void can fly okay. So now our interfaces are ready. Let's create a subclass. And I'll specify the class name. It's going to be bird okay. So now this bird class will implement the can feed and can fly interfaces. So for this after the keyword implements we'll right after the class name. And right can feed comma can fly. Okay. So the bird class implements the can feed and can fly interfaces, and that means they can eat and can drink and can fly. Methods in the interfaces must be implemented in the bird class. And you see we get a compilation error. Now just hover that pointer on the bird class and you can see the message. The bird type must implement the inherited abstract methods. So in other words we must implement the methods can eat, can drink and can fly in this class. So we'll just select the add unimplemented methods. And the methods are automatically added with the override annotation. So you can see here that we implemented methods in two different interfaces at the same time. Now it's actually not possible to overcome this with Java classes. Therefore, if we do want to use properties in two different classes at the same time, we've got to define these properties in the interfaces, and then implement the interfaces in the class where we want to use these properties. This is one of the main purposes of interfaces. All right. Now you know. So we're going to fill these methods now. So in the connect method I want to print the birds can eat bird seed. So that'll be the message just by using the println method. And what about the canned drink method. Let's print. The birds can drink water as our message by using that same print method. Now in the can fly method I want to print birds can fly as the message. Okay, now we're going to want to create another subclass. Name. This class will be people and the class will implement the can feed interface. So after the class name I just want to write implements can feed and I have to implement the can eat and can drink methods. Yeah. All right. So now you can see since these two properties are common for animals and humans, I define these properties in an interface. Use them in both a person class and the bird class. And now you see another main purpose of interfaces. So let's go ahead and fill in these methods. And the can eat method I'll print. The people can eat meat as the message just by using the println method. And the can drink method. Now let's just print. People can drink juice as our message by using the print method. So now, at this point, let me just show you something. If you've been paying attention, we created the methods in the interface without a body. And the reason for this is that the interface would just say, hey, I can do this, right? But how to do it? That's defined in the classes they are implemented in. So while we give the message birds can eat bird seed in the bird class, we can give the message people can eat meat here. You see. So in other words we can shape the method according to our own purpose. So this is one of the most important and certainly a beautiful feature of interfaces. All right. You'll see as we get further on how useful it really is. So let's test out our code shall we. So I'll create the main test class named Interface Test. And in the main method, I'll create a bird object first. Bird. Bird equals new bird. Let's call the override. Can eat, can drink and can fly. Methods from the class bird. Now I can create a people object. People. People equals new people. Call the overridden can eat and can drink methods from the class people. All right. So let's run all that And have a look at the results in the console. Birds can eat bird seed. Birds can drink water and birds can fly. So far so good as far as people go. People can eat meat and people can drink juice. You betcha they can. So, my friends, that's how useful the interface is. I think it is generally understood what an interface is and what it is used for. Now I will give some tips and end the video. Let's open one of the interfaces. For example can fly. If your interface contains a modifier, you should definitely use the interface keyword after the modifier. For example, let's use the interface keyword before the public modifier. As you can see, we are getting a compilation error. Pay attention to this. However, the following usage is correct. We can delete the public modifier and use only the interface keyword. In this way you will not get any compilation errors. Now let's look at another important issue. So far we have said that the methods we will define in interfaces cannot have a body. This is true for general use. However, there are some exceptions. For example, if the method is static or contains the default keyword, in this case the method must have a body. For example, let's create a new method. When we define the method in the interface in this way, we get a compilation error when we create the method body. As you can see, it says interface abstract methods cannot have body. Let's make this method static now. As you can see, the compilation error is gone if we delete the body. If you notice, we started to get a compilation error again, but this time it tells us that the static method in the interface must have a body. A similar situation applies to the default keyword. If we use the default keyword, as you can see, the compilation error continues and tells us that the default methods in the interface must have a body. When we create the body, we can see that the error is gone after Java eight. Default methods can be defined in interfaces. The default and static methods provide an implementation directly in the interface, and do not have to be overridden by the implemented classes. If you notice, although the bird class implements the Canfly interface, it does not have to implement the Getage method because the Getage method is currently the default and has a body. The same applies to static methods if the method in the interface is static, the method must have a body and does not have to be implemented by the subclass. Also note that the public keyword is redundant for every case. In other words, the methods in the interface are automatically public. Another thing you should pay attention to is that a class can inherit from another class and implement a different interface at the same time. For example, let's create a new Java class called Eagles. This class will extend the bird class. Since this class is a subclass of the bird class, it can automatically access the overridden methods in the bird class. However, this class does not have to implement the methods in the interfaces implemented by the bird class, because these methods are already overridden in the bird class. Now let's create a new interface called Canmove. Let this interface have a method called move. Now let's let the Eagles class implement this interface. After the bird class, let's implement the can move interface with the implements keyword. As you can see, while the Eagles class extends the bird class, it can implement the can move interface at the same time. If there are other interfaces that it needs to implement, it can implement them as well. There is no limit here. Also, if you pay attention, we get a compilation error because there is a method called move in the can move interface and we need to implement this method. As you can see, the error is gone. Yes friends, I shared the purpose of using interfaces and some tips with you. I hope it was useful. Let's take a short break here. See you in the next video.

=== 11. Polymorphism ===
Well hello there. In this video we're going to talk a little bit about implicit casting or in other words polymorphism in Java. So polymorphism because I promised I'd tell you about it is used to perform a single action but in different forms. So in Java we have two types of polymorphism. The first one is static and the second one is dynamic. So method overloading is an example of static polymorphism. Method overriding is an example of dynamic polymorphism. So in the slide here you can see dynamic polymorphism. So for example we have a vehicle superclass and it has an accelerate method. And we have two subclasses that override the accelerate method of the superclass vehicle. and accelerate works for any type of vehicle, right? Not only a car, but also a motorcycle. The accelerate action is done different in a different form in the car and motorcycle classes. So when we create an object of the subclass and then assign it to the superclass reference, if we call the overridden accelerate method on the superclass vehicle reference, then the overridden method of the subclass will be called ether. So let's say if we want to create two objects. Vehicle. Vehicle equals new car. Now that's a statement that works because car is a subclass of vehicle. Okay. So here the reference variable vehicle Declared the type of vehicle is pointing to an object of the car class. So in the same way vehicle vehicle one equals new motorcycle. That works as a statement because motorcycle is a subclass of vehicle as well. So here the reference variable vehicle one is declared. Type vehicle is pointing to an object of the motorcycle class. And this very useful feature of Java is named polymorphism. So now to bring it home let's let's do up some great examples so that we can understand polymorphism in all of its flavors. So we implemented static polymorphism that includes the method overloading in the method section. So we will implement dynamic polymorphism that includes the method overriding in this exercise. Okay. In the Object Oriented Programming project, right click on the source folder and select New and Package. Specify the package name as polymorphism. Now let's create a Java class in this package. Its name will be vehicle. The vehicle class will be our superclass. So now let's declare a public void method that's named accelerate in this class. And then we print vehicle is accelerating for the message using the print method. Okay. So let's create a new subclass. So just right click on the same package and then select new class. And then specify the class name as car. So our subclass car extends the superclass vehicle. And this means that the subclass car inherits the accelerate method from the superclass vehicle. Right. So now let's override this method. We can start with the override annotation, but it's not mandatory here. We'll write accelerate as the method again to override. Now in this method we can print. Car is accelerating for a message. Okay so now let's create a new subclass. So right click on the same package and select New Class. Specify the class name as motorcycle. And our subclass motorcycle extends the superclass vehicle. So now we write the accelerate method to override by adding the override annotation. And then in this method we print the message motorcycle is accelerating. Okay. So let's create a main test class that's named test in the same package. In the main method, first create a vehicle object reference by pointing to the car class. And this code works because car is a subclass of vehicle, right? So the class vehicle is extended by the class car and its method accelerate is overridden in the class car. So in this definition, the reference variable vehicle is pointing to an object of the car class. So if we call the accelerate method it will print. The car is accelerating message. You don't believe me? Let's run the code. And you can see it right here in the console. Car is accelerating. Is the message you see here displayed? Okay. But if we create an object from the car class and assign the vehicle object to the object of the car class, we're going to get a compilation error. For example, let's just create a car object. So after the equal sign, I'll write the vehicle object. And as you can see we get a compilation error. It says type mismatch cannot convert from vehicle to car. Told you. And that's just because the vehicle is the object of the vehicle class. So it simply points to the car class but is actually an object of the vehicle class. Hopefully you guessed that already. Now to avoid this error, we should actually do explicit casting here. So before the vehicle object I'll write car in the parentheses. And now you see the errors disappeared. So see this cast inserts a runtime check. That vehicle is assigned a car so that the compiler can safely assume that vehicle is a car. If the vehicle is not a car at runtime, an exception will be thrown 100%. So in this case, you can make a logical test as to the type of a particular object using the instance of operator. This can actually save you from a runtime error owing to an improper cast. For example, you can create an if statement like this. If vehicle is an instance of the car. You can assign the vehicle to my car with explicit casting. So here the instance of operator verifies that vehicle refers to a car, so that we can make the cast with the knowledge that there will be no runtime exception thrown. Yeah. Now let's go ahead and create another reference object of the vehicle class by appointing a motorcycle class. So in this definition, the reference variable vehicle two is going to be pointing to an object of the motorcycle class okay. Now if we call the accelerate method it'll print the motorcycle is accelerating message. Okay. Let's run the code again. And you see in the console motorcycle is accelerating. What a great message. Okay. So that is polymorphism in Java. But the point you really need to pay attention to here is that the reference object of the superclass can point to the subclass. However, the opposite of this causes a compilation error. For example, the reference object of the car class cannot point to the vehicle class. Yeah. Let's do an example right away. And you see the compilation error. We can solve this compilation error with explicit casting. So let's fix a compilation error with the explicit cast. Nice. Now the conclusion that we need to understand from here is this. If the reference object of a class points to a subclass, there is no need to make an explicit cast here. However, if the reference object of a class points to a superclass, just like here, we need to make an explicit cast, but this only fixes the compilation error. See, this line throws a class cast exception at runtime if we run it. See what I mean? There's the class cast. Exception was thrown. Wait, you thought I was just joking, huh? So it is a runtime exception. Therefore, it is possible to say that not all cast exceptions may be detected at compile time. These errors can also be detected at runtime, and a class cast exception can be thrown. Now I want you to remember that hopefully you will, but in your own time. Now, finally, I need to mention one more thing and then you'll know everything there is to know about polymorphism. If a method's parameter requires a superclass object, you can also pass subclass objects to this method as parameters. Now if you want. Why don't we just do a quick example or you can just watch me. Whatever. Let's create a method called print accelerate outside the main method. Let's take an object of the type car. Also, this method will call the accelerate method in the car class. Let's create another method in a similar way, but this method will take an object of type motorcycle. And it will call the accelerate method in the motorcycle class. Now let's call these methods in the main method. We can write new car as a parameter. The first method. We can write new motorcycle as a parameter of the second method. Okay, so now everything seems okay, but there is something that can be improved in these codes. So just for a moment, imagine that there are 20 classes instead of just two derived from the vehicle class. And in that case it might be necessary to create 20 print accelerate methods. However, it's possible to simplify this with polymorphism of course. Now, instead of these two methods, let's create a new print accelerate method. This method will take an object from the vehicle class, which is a superclass of both classes, as a parameter, and it will call the accelerate method. And as you can see, there's no problem in the main method because the print accelerate method requires an object from the vehicle class. And since the car and motorcycle classes are subclasses of the vehicle class. It's possible to write these classes as parameters, so this is a situation that we can overcome thanks to polymorphism. Now let's run the program. And there you see we were able to print the car as accelerating and motorcycle is accelerating. Both messages are now printed to the console. So that is the wonderful world of polymorphism. But the point you really do need to pay attention to is the hierarchy between classes. You can cast from a subclass to a superclass, but casting from a superclass to a subclass might not always be correct. And even if there is no compilation error, a runtime exception and a class cast exception may be thrown. All right, just don't forget it. Ever. Let's take a short break here and see you in the next video.

=== 12. Encapsulation ===
Encapsulation. Encapsulation is one of the fundamental principles in object oriented programming, and it's used to restrict visibility of the class members to the others. So in our example, we have vehicle class, and we define the model and the maxspeed variables as a private modifier. Now if you define a variable or method with the private modifier, you can access these components from the current class only. So we have only one way to interact with class properties, and that is through its public methods. That makes sense. Now we define the public setter and getter methods of the Maxspeed variable. So it can be accessed from outside the class. But we have no public setter and getter methods of the model variable. so it can't be accessed from outside the class. So why don't I show you some examples? Um. And it'll help you to understand encapsulation. So in our object oriented programming project go ahead and right click on the source folder and select New and Package. Specify the package name as encapsulation. Now I'll create a new Java class in this package. The class name will be vehicle. Vehicle class will be our superclass. So let's declare two instance private variables that are named model with a string type and Maxspeed with an int type in vehicle class. Now private means that these variables are visible to the current class only. So now let's declare a public constructor that's named vehicle. And let's assign two parameters model and Maxspeed. So in the constructor method we assign a parameter variable model to the variable model of this class. And now we assign a parameter variable maxspeed to the variable maxspeed of this class. And now we use the this keyword to access same class variables. Okay. So now let's generate the public getter and setter method of the variable maxspeed to access from the outside. Now there's actually a short and easy way to create getter and setter methods in IntelliJ, but I do want to show you how to create getter and setter methods manually. That way you'll really understand what what a great thing IntelliJ is, but also how it all works. First, let's create the getter method for the Maxspeed variable. The access modifier of getter and setter methods should be public, because we need to be able to easily access these variables from outside the class they are defined in. Then, after the modifier, we should write the type of the variable. Because the purpose of this getter method is to return the value of the variable. Therefore, the return type of the method should be the same as the type of the variable. Makes sense. So the return type of the getter method for maxspeed is int. Then we should write the name of the method. The general usage and getter methods goes like this. First the get prefix and then the name of the variable. So in other words, get maxspeed. So the getter method does not actually take any parameters, it only returns the value of the variable. So for this reason I'll write return maxspeed in the body of the method. Okey doke. This is how we created the getter method for the Maxspeed variable. Let's go ahead and create the setter method for the Maxspeed variable and the access modifier will be public. The setter method does not return a value. It's only used to assign a value to the variable. Therefore, setter methods are void. Okay. The set prefix is written for the name of the method and then the name of the variable. So in other words, set maxspeed. Since the new value to be assigned to, the value of the variable will come from the outside. setter methods take a parameter of the type of the variable. Int max speed. And in the body of the method, the new value is set to the variable of this class. This dot max speed equals max speed. Here is a setter method. And as you can see, it's no different from normal methods. You can actually change the method names as you wish here. But this is in general how it should go. Okay. Let's continue. Now we don't want to generate getter and setter methods of the variable model now, because what we'll do is we'll test it in the main method. Okay. Now let's create a new subclass. Just right click on the same package and then select new class. Specify the class name as car And our subclass car extends the superclass vehicle. And what's this? We get a compilation error. And then we define a constructor in the superclass vehicle. So we must define an explicit constructor in the subclass car. And we must invoke the superclass constructor from this constructor by using the super keyword. All right. So in the class car let's declare a private variable is automatic with a boolean type. So that means its initial value is false. And now we add the variable is automatic to the constructor of the car class as a third parameter. And then we assign the parameter variable is automatic to the variable is automatic of this class. Now we don't want to generate getter and setter methods of the variable is automatic. Now because we're going to test it in the main method. So instead let's create a main test class that's named encapsulation test in the same package. So in the main method we create a car object by passing parameters. The first parameter Ferrari represents a model of the car. The second parameter, 320, represents the max speed of the car. The last parameter False represents the is automatic of the car. Follow. So we now have assign the necessary values to the variables of the car class thanks to the constructor. And what do you say? Why don't we try to change the is automatic variable that we defined in the car class again. So in the next line I write car dot is automatic. But you notice something. We cannot access the is automatic variable. Well that's just because the access modifier of the is automatic variable is private. So what do you think. What should we do if we want to change the value of this variable. This is where the setter method comes into play. Right. So if we create the setter method of the is automatic method in the car class we can now change the value of this variable. What are you waiting for? Let's do it right now. This time I will use the quick and easy way of IntelliJ to create the setter method. I just right click on the empty space here and select generate and the setter option. Good. So from here I'll choose only the Isautomatic variable. I'll click the okay button. Okay. Now IntelliJ has added the necessary method for us. Cool. Now let's go back to our test class. Now let's try to access the Isautomatic variable once more. There you see we can now gain access. All right. So now all I'll do is set its value to true. All right, my friends. There you go. The purpose of the setter method. Now we can print the properties of the car class By using our print methods. So in the first print method, we display the model of the car. And then we try to invoke the Getmodel method from the superclass vehicle. But we cannot access this method because we have no public getter method available of the variable model in the vehicle class. So let's open the vehicle class and generate getter and setter methods of the variable model in the same way. But I wonder if you notice something. We can create just the getter method, or just the setter method or both methods if we want. See, it totally depends on the purpose of our app. So for example, if you want to read only the value of a variable you have created without changing it, then all you have to do is use a getter method. Or if you just want the value of the variable to be changed but not read, then you can just use a setter method, or you can apply both methods. If you don't have any restrictions, or if you don't want anyone to have access to this variable, then you wouldn't use either method. But these are entirely up to you. Okay, and now let's open the main class again, and let's try to invoke the Getmodel method. Okay. So we can access this method. And now in the second print method we display the maxspeed of car and invoke the get Maxspeed method from the superclass variable. So we can access this method because we defined the getter method in the vehicle class. Make sense? Now for the last print method we display is car automatic or not. We invoke the is automatic method from subclass car. But we cannot access this method because we have no public getter. Method of the variable is automatic. In the car class we only created the setter method. Hmm. Let's open the car class and generate a getter method of the variable is automatic in the same way that we just went through. All right, IntelliJ added. The public getter method of the variable is automatic. So let's open the main class again. Now let's try to invoke the is automatic method. All right. So now we can access this method. Let's run the test code. And you can see the results in the console. Model is Ferrari and max speed is 320. Wow. That's fast. These properties come together because of the getter methods in the superclass vehicle. But car is automatic is true. This property comes from the getter method of subclass car. All right, so there you go. That is the concept of encapsulation in Java. We'll take another short break here. But come on back because we've got something else coming up in the next video. I'll see you next time.

=== 13. Anonymous Class ===
All right, check it out. My friends. In this video we're going to talk about the anonymous class in Java. Naturally you remember we've covered nested classes previously. So within this context we actually examined static nested classes and non-static that is inner classes. We also examined local classes from inner classes. But I wonder if you remember that I said I promised that we'd get to an explanation about anonymous classes after we learned about the interface. Well, my friends, now that we did the interface, we can talk about anonymous classes in Java. So that means in this video, we're going to talk about how we can declare and create instances of them. And we'll also briefly discuss their properties and limitations. So why don't we get to it now naturally, in Java, the anonymous class is an inner class without a name and for which only a single object is created. An anonymous inner class can be useful when making an instance of an object with certain extras, such as overriding methods of a class or interface without having to actually subclass a class. Right. So anonymous classes enable us to make our code more concise. They enable us to declare and instantiate a class at the same time. So they are like local classes, except that they do not have a name. Now this is important because the anonymous classes don't have a name. We can use them if you need to use a local class only once. So in this case, we can achieve our goal directly with the anonymous class without even a need for a subclass. So I want to show you this example. If you. Hey, open your eyes. Here we go. So we've got an interface called animals. And this interface has a method named show. Also the show method has two parameters name and speed. So we can call this interface inside the main method without using any subclasses. Yeah. Just like creating a new object from a class. When we use the new keyword, we can use the members of this interface and specify what the method should do. I want you to notice curly parentheses right here. Opens up with a new keyword, and a semicolon gets added here to the end of this curly princess. Okay, now actually this is the best proof that anonymous classes are expressions. Yeah. So that's a bonus point there. Now, in case you were wondering, the syntax of anonymous class expression is like the invocation of a constructor, except there is a class definition contained in a block of code. Ooh. Sounds fun. Let's have a look. The anonymous class expression consists of these parts. The new operator. The name of an interface to implement or a class to extend. In this example, the anonymous class is implementing the interface animals parentheses that contain the arguments to a constructor. Yeah, just like a normal class instance creation expression. I want you to note, though, that when you implement an interface, just like I'm showing you here, there is no constructor. So you actually use an empty pair of parentheses. Okay. A body which is a class declaration body. Now there are a few limitations. So let's have a look at what anonymous classes can do or actually what their limitations are. So an anonymous class cannot access local variables in its enclosing scope that are not declared as final or effectively final. Also, an anonymous class has access to the members of its enclosing class. An anonymous class can have static members provided that they are constant variables. Also, we can declare the following in anonymous classes fields, extra methods, instance initializers, and local classes. All right, so check this one out. Though we cannot write any constructor for the anonymous inner class. And that's because the anonymous class does not have any name. And of course when you're defining the constructor class, well it's got to be the same name as the constructor name, right? Not going to work. All right. So now that you've got some information about this anonymous class, we can understand a little better through an example I believe. So first up I'm going to create an interface in a new package in the Object Oriented Programming project. Package name will be anonymous classes. The name of the interface will be animals. So now I've got to create a method with two parameters. Void show string name int speed. Since the methods in the interface don't have a body, I will not create the method body. But now the interface is ready. Okay, so right now I will implement this method to the subclass without using the anonymous class. And then we'll do some necessary operations over the subclass. All right. So and then after that's established, we'll do some similar operations using the anonymous class without using subclasses. That way you get to see the difference, you know, without me talking a lot. Right. That's better. Okay. We'll continue. So first I'll create a subclass that implements this method. So I'll create a new class in the anonymous Classes package. Let's make the class name cheetah. Now I want to implement the animals interface. So after the keyword implements. All right animals. Okay. So you see the compilation error because there is a method that we have to implement. Let's go ahead and implement it. So now in this method I want to print a message to the console using the name and speed parameter. S out double quotes a. plus name plus double quotes can reach speeds of. Plus speed plus. Double quote kilometers per hour. All right. Now let's go ahead and create the test class in the anonymous classes package. The class name will be Main test. Now I'm ready to create an object from the cheetah class. Cheetah. Cheetah equals new cheetah. Now, using the cheetah object, I will call the show method cheetah dot show. And as the first parameter, I can write cheetah. For the second parameter, I'll write 90. Now let's run the code and see what happens. All right. Good. So you can see that a cheetah can reach speeds of 90km/h. That's the message that gets printed to the console. Now, actually, what we've done so far is what you already know. You probably could have done that if I had sent you home to do homework or whatever. But because we are here and doing this together, let's just try to print this message to the console using the anonymous class. So I want to convert these lines and yeah, just comment them out. All right my friends. And now without using the subclass I will call the interface. Animals. Animal equal new animals. And you see this? We get a compilation error. It says animals is abstract, cannot be instantiated. Well, then it's actually normal because we cannot instantiate the interfaces and abstract classes. So now let's see what happens when I put curly braces after the animals. Okay, so the error still continues. But this time it says something different, right? Anonymous class derived from animals must implement abstract method show in animals. Well, doesn't that give us a clue? So I'll click the implement methods option. And now you can see a new block is created. So this is named the anonymous class in Java. There is no class name. Pretty cool huh? But lastly, we will need to put a semicolon at the end of the block. Okay, good. Now we can write some code in the show method. I want to copy the print method in the cheetah class. I'll paste it into the show method in the anonymous class. Now last step. In order to execute these codes, we will need to call the show method using the animals object. So here I'll write animals dot show. And for the parameter I'll write cheetah and 90. Again. Let's run all that and see what happens. Yeah. So we get the same message. So far so good. So there you go, my friends. That is working with the anonymous class in Java. You know what? Why don't we just take a short break here and when you come back. Well, we got another video for you. I'll see you then.

=== 14. Record Class ===
All right. Hello, my friends. Welcome back. Well, right now we've got a video where we're going to talk about the record class. So we've got this class of record class, and it's used to create immutable data containers in Java. And it's basically a simple template based class used to hold and access data. The record class contains only data fields and methods to access these fields. It also automatically generates standard methods such as hashCode equals to string. But the record classes were actually first introduced as a preview feature with Java 14. So this was a feature introduced to get feedback before being integrated into the full version of the language. And then later with Java 16, record classes entered general use in a stable release. So in other words, it became possible to use record classes fully as of Java 16. Now, this record class actually provides a simpler and more readable way to create data containers in Java. So previously Pojo. Plain old Java object was often used for such data containers, which required a lot more coding. So the record class actually allows us to define such data containers in a single line, thus speeding up the coding process and increasing the readability of the code. There's actually no direct alternative to the record class, but Pojo classes or data classes and languages such as Kotlin are often used to provide similar functionality. Lombok A Java library can also be used for a similar purpose, but it actually requires a Lombok library to be included in the project. However, since the record classes are automatically integrated into the Java language, it's possible to use them without adding a library. All right, so now you've got all the basics about record classes. Let's have a look at how to create a record class. Now the keyword that we use for a Java class to become a record class is the record keyword. Yeah, it's a tough one. Gotta remember. Now when you use a record keyword before the class name, you actually define a record class. You also define the fields you will define in this class in parentheses. So for example string name, int age, etc. getter methods are automatically provided to access these fields. In addition to the getter methods, the to string method, hashCode and equals methods are also automatically provided. Now, what do you suppose we ought to take into consideration when defining the record class? It is. What do we need to pay attention to? Well, if you think about it, since the record class is immutable, its fields are final and private and cannot be accessed directly from the outside. A record class is implicitly final. It is permitted for the declaration of a record class to redundantly specify the final modifier. A nested record class is implicitly static, and that just means every member of the record class and local record class is static, right? So it is permitted for the declaration of a member of record class to redundantly specify the static modifier, but it is not permitted for the declaration of a local record class. It's possible to define methods in the record class, but generally only methods that provide data access are defined. Now, if it's desired to change the default behavior, the methods automatically created by the record class, such as hashCode equals to string. These methods can be overridden. It is not possible, though, to create a parameter less constructor in record classes, and that's because record classes require all fields to be defined due to their structure. But we can leave blank the parentheses which we define the fields of the vehicle class in. So it's actually possible not to create any fields in record classes, but it's actually useless because, well, it doesn't serve any purpose. Now we can also control or process some fields using the compact canonical Constructor. So, for example, it's possible to handle the non-negative situation of the age requested from the user with a compact canonical constructor. It is a compile time error if a record declaration has the modifier. Abstract. It is a compile time error if the same keyword appears more than once as a modifier for a record declaration, or if a record declaration is more than one of the access modifiers, public, protected and private. The direct superclass type of a record class is record, and a record declaration does not have an extends clause, so it's not possible to explicitly declare a direct superclass type, even the record. So the record classes do not extend any class, but it can implement an interface. I know that's a lot, but you've now learned a lot about record classes, so let's get into doing some practice. Then you'll get it into your fingers. Now, in the Object Oriented Programming package, I'm going to create a new package named Record Classes. And I will create a new Java class in this package named person. This time I'm going to choose the record class option from here. And if you notice the declaration of the record class, there's a record keyword and a couple of parentheses after the class name. So before defining the fields, Let's first have a look at some important points we've got to pay attention to. So first off if I delete these parentheses we get the compile time error. Now these parentheses are obviously mandatory. We can delete the public modifier. There's no problem there. But check this out. We cannot use private or protected modifiers. The record classes do not abstract, so we are not permitted to use the abstract keyword in the class declaration of the record classes. And again, we're not able to use the static keyword here either. It's also not permitted. But we can use the final keyword since record classes are implicitly final. This is redundant, However, if we use the final keyword here, yeah, there's not a problem. So now let's try to declare an instance variable in the record class. Int age. And we immediately get a compilation error. Let's initialize it. There's no change. We still get the compilation error but we can make it static. Now you see the error is gone. So if we don't initialize it, as you can see, there's no change. It is possible to declare an instance variable with a static keyword in the record classes. And again we can use the final keyword. And naturally we should initialize it. But the final keyword here is redundant because the record classes and their members are final by default. Okay, now let's create another person class named person two. And I'll try to extend the person class to person two. What's this you say we get a compilation error? So the extend keyword is not permitted here either. So now let's create an interface. And we'll make its name drink. So I'll add a void method named can drink with a parameter string drink name. Good. So now let's implement this interface to the record class person. And I will implement the canned drink method. So you see we can now implement the interface drink. Also we can override the methods of the interface. There's no problem there either. All right. So that's just a few of the key points you got to know when you're working with a record classes. Now let's try and figure out the logic of the record classes. So first let's use a normal Java class. Carry some data relating to a person. Now remember these kinds of classes called Pojo class. That is plain old Java objects. And in this class I will define some instance variables constructors getter methods. Equals method. hashCode method and toString method. Then I want to do the same thing with the record class, and you'll be able to see the difference better. So now I'll jump to the person two class. So this is a class that will be our Pojo class. So I'll declare two instance variables in this class. These will be name and age. These will be private. Let's also make them final. So now I want to create the two parameter constructor. And second, we'll create the getter methods. Third, I want to override the equals method. And I'll select this option. And select all instance variables. And you can see the equals method is overridden. Yeah. The equals method is used to compare two objects. If you do not override this method, all objects created with a new keyword are actually considered different objects because an ID is assigned in memory for each object. So this remember stack and heap. So even if the values of the objects are the same, if they're created with a new keyword, this method returns false. That is, it compares the IDs of the objects. However, if you override this method, it compares the values of the objects instead of their IDs and then returns true if the values are the same. Otherwise it returns false. And another overridden method is hashCode. So this method also allows us to obtain. The id is assigned to the object's memory. And finally let's override the toString method and I'll select this one. Now you remember right from the constructor video, when you try to print the object of a class to the console. If the to string method is not defined in the class, the ID of the object is printed to the console. So if there is a to string method this time, the toString method is called. Okay, so that class is now ready. Let's create a new Java class to test some code and we'll let its name be main test. Okay, so first let's create an object of the Person2 class. And as the constructor parameters I'll pass. John Doe and 30. Now I want to access the getters method to print the values, name and age to the console. Last up, I'll call the toString method to print the values again. And since we override the toString method, we can only call the object name. The toString here is redundant, but it can stay. Also, to test the equals and hashCode methods, I want to create another object of the Person2 class. Again I'll pass. John Doe for the name parameter and 30 for the age parameter. Now the equals method. I'll compare the person one and person two objects. And lastly, I will print their hash codes with the help of the hash code method. Now let's run the code. All right, so we've printed the name and the age variables with a getter methods and to string method. Also the comparison with the equals method returned. True because the values of the two objects are the same. Yeah. Okay. If we do not override the equals method in the Person2 class, this will return false. You can test it yourself. Don't believe me? But also, I wonder if you noticed the hash codes of the objects are the same, even though we created them with the new keyword. All right, now, before we go writing the necessary codes for the record class person, I want to open person two class. Now, just note that we have written a lot of lines of code here. Is it possible to do these operations without writing so much code? And of course the answer is yes. It is possible with the record class. So why don't we go ahead and open up the person record class. So all I need to do is define the relevant fields inside the constructor brackets, namely string name int age. And that's it. This one line of code does everything I did in the person two class. So this you can see, is an obvious advantage of using the record class. Huh? The record class creates the parameterized constructor and getter methods for us in the background. It also overrides the toString method, the hashCode method, and the equals method. Now of course, you can always override these methods and shape them according to your own purpose. There's actually no problem with that. But now we're going to move on to the main method and use our person record class instead of the person two class. Let's run it and test it out. All right. So you can see right here in front of you the result is the same. And as a result, when we compare record classes with Pojo classes, the record class is much shorter and more understandable compared to Pojo. All getter to string equals and hashCode methods and Parameterised constructor are provided automatically. All we have to write getter setter to string equals and hashcode methods manually and Pojo. Well, obviously it's a whole different ball game. It's a lot more quick with record classes. All I'm saying. Now unlike the Pojo classes, since record classes are immutable, it's actually not possible to access instance variables directly and assign values. So in other words, we can create setter methods in Pojo classes and assign a value to variables. However, it's actually not possible to assign values to record class variables because there is no setter method. And remember it is immutable. So in fact, why don't we just try and change the value of the name parameter to Paul? And as you can see, there is no setter method, so we cannot change the value of the name after assigning. So this is one of the main differences between the record classes and the Pojo classes. So as a result the record classes are immutable and we use a record classes to carry some data. You just got to remember that difference. Alrighty then. We also mentioned the compact canonical constructor at the beginning of the video. Let's have a look at it now. So we're going to first try to define a parameter less constructor that is the default constructor. And what you're looking at is a compilation error. It says non-canonical record constructor must delegate to another constructor. So obviously we cannot create the default constructor in the record classes. But we can change this to the constructor with all parameters. So now you see there's no problem this time. But yeah, it's redundant. However, although it's not recommended. There is actually a way to create a parameter less constructor in record classes. So you didn't hear it from me, but I'll show it to you. For this, you're going to need to assign constant values to the constructor components. Let's check it out. So I will call the this constructor call. And as the name parameter I'll create an empty string. Or I can actually pass it null. And for the age parameter I'll pass zero. So now let's create another object from this record class. And check it out. There's no error. But see, as a default, the name is null and the age is zero. And since the record class is immutable, well, we wouldn't be able to change these values. So it's just something like I say you didn't hear it from me anyway. Now let's have a look at the declaration of the compact canonical constructor. So let's say, for example, we don't want users to enter a negative value for the age parameter. Or in other words, let's check the value entered by the user for the age parameter and give a message to the user if this value is negative. So for this, why don't we go ahead and use a structure called compact canonical constructor. All right, let's do it. Now. The difference, of course, from creating a normal constructor is that you're not going to use parentheses. So we call this compact canonical constructor. All right. Now let's check the age variable with an if condition here. If age is negative let's give the user a message saying age cannot be negative. All right. So now let's create a person object in the main method and assign a negative value to the age parameter. What happens when you test it. Yeah. The compact canonical constructor was called. And it was checked whether the age is negative or not. And since it was negative, the message age cannot be negative was printed to the console. Now, in addition to these, we can also create custom methods in the record classes. So say for example, let's define a method that checks the age and returns a message. You are an adult. If the age is greater than 18 and the message you are not an adult if it is less than that. Okay, let's try to access this method from the main method. Since the age of the person object is over 18, we should see the message you are an adult. And yeah, so you can see we can define a custom method in the record class. Now maybe if we want to we can also create getter methods constructor with all parameters or other overridable methods such as toString. Those won't cause an error. And finally we were talking about nested record classes and that they're static. I want to make sure that we get an example of this in. So let's create an outer person class. Now let's create a record class inside this class. Let's also have a name parameter. Now let's try to access this record class from the main method. And as you can see, we can access the record class directly without creating an object from the outer class because nested record classes are implicitly static. Now if you want, let's try to understand this a little deeper. Even if you don't want, we're going to do it. So let's define a variable of type int with a public access modifier in the outer class, and we're going to assign a value to it. Now let's try to access this variable from the method we will define in the record class. You see that we couldn't access it and we get a compilation error. When we look at the error it says non-static field cannot be referenced from a static context. Uh, okay. So from here you can obviously see that nested record classes are actually static. All right my friends, now we've got record classes in Java. So why don't we take a break here and stick around for the next video? I'll see you then.

=== 15. var Keyword ===
All right, all right. Hello my friends. Welcome back. So in this video we're going to talk a little bit about the var keyword. So you've now gotten to a certain level in Java. And there is some basic information that you've learned so far. Java is a statically typed language. So in other words when we declare a variable we need to specify its type. Otherwise we encounter compilation error. There is however an exception to this. So we're going to talk about this exception in this video. The var keyword. So var is a feature introduced in Java to improve code readability and efficiency. We're going to cover when and how you can use it, its limitations as well as the potential issues that may arise. We're going to also explore any related changes in the most recent versions of Java. So what are you doing sitting there? Let's get to it. So first of all, you might want to know the keyword var was introduced in Java ten, which was released all the way back in 2018. Now, before Java ten, developers had to explicitly declare the type of every variable. I know you're saying what a drag, but this approach actually ensures type safety. It can also lead to code redundancy, especially when the type is evident from the context. So with the introduction of var, Java supports local variable type inference, allowing the compiler to infer the type of a variable from its assigned value. Now basically you can use var to declare variables in a method or in a block, and that allows Java to infer the type based on the value assigned to the variable. So why don't we have a look at how you use var. All right. So you can see the types are automatically inferred by the compiler based on the assigned value. That's what I've been saying. Now in the example that you're looking at message is inferred as string number as int and list as string array. Now let's have a little chat about the places where we can actually use var. Method or block scope. So var can only be used in local variable declarations inside methods, constructors or blocks. Primitive and Non-primitive types. You can use var for both primitive types like int, double, etc. and reference types like string, array, list or even user defined classes. So we're going to see an example of this. What you're looking at here is creating some variables with var in a method scope. Now why don't we talk about some limitations of the bar? While var is useful, there are certain limitations to its usage. VAR is not for class level variables, so you can't use var for fields in a class. You can only use it for local variables. Okay, and you cannot use var to define method parameters or as a return type. For methods, the variable must be initialized when declared. You cannot declare a variable with var without an initial value otherwise. Yeah. Compilation error. Now also we cannot assign null as the value without explicit type. Since null has no type. Assigning it directly to a var variable will result in a compilation error. Also, var cannot be used for lambda expressions, so you cannot use var to declare lambda expressions directly because yeah, the compiler needs the target type for lambda inference. All right, some details. But now you know. So let's practice. So we're going to first. Well let's just close this project and open the exercise project that we created before. Now in this project I just want to create a new package named var examples. Now I'll create a new Java class named var examples in this package. And I want to add the main method. All right so first let's create some variables with var in the main method. VAR num equals ten. VAR name equals double quotes. Java. VAR animals equals new string square brackets. And we'll let the length be five. So now you see we've created different types of variables using the var keyword in the main method. But if you hover your mouse over these variables you're going to see that there are types assigned in compile time. So for example the num variable is perceived as int. So you can use a var keyword like this when you're defining primitive and non-primitive variables. You can even define an object that you will create from a class you created as var. For example, let's create a class named person. Now let's create an object of this class in the main method. But we're going to use the var keyword. And there you see the type of the object is assigned automatically. So using var is real simple actually. But you do have to pay attention when you're using var. Let's take a look. So first off the class name cannot be var. Let's create a subclass right away. And we'll let the name of the class be var. So you see this. We do get a compilation error but you can use var with capital letter. Why is that? Yeah. Java is case sensitive in case you forgot. So now let's create a method named var. And now you can see the method name can be var. There's no restriction here, but the return type of the method cannot be var. So as you can see here we get a compilation error. The parameter of the method cannot be var. There's a compilation error again. So now let's try to create an instance variable using var. What another compilation error? Yeah, because var can be used when defining local variables. So in other words we can use it in a method or a block. Okay. Now let's go back to the main method. Let's create a new variable using var. But this time let's not initialize it. And you see we get a compilation error. However, even if we do not initialize it in primitive or non primitives, we're not going to get a compilation error. Okay, so let's define another variable with var and try to assign a null value this time. And there you see we got our compilation error. So let me ask you, can we assign a different type of value to a variable that we defined and initialized with var. Good experiment. Let's try it. So we're going to try to pass a string to the num variable. Yeah. You see we get a compilation error again because the type of the num variable is assigned as int. And we cannot pass a different data type to it. Now we also have to be careful when we're defining an array. By the way you remember of course we used a square bracket after the data type or array name whenever we're creating an array. So we'll do an example like that right now. Let's define an int array. So you notice we're using square brackets. Now let's create it with var okay great. But pay attention to this. We cannot use a square bracket after var, nor can we use a square bracket after the array name because using var will automatically assign its type anyway. Ah, now it makes sense. So finally let's have a look at the use of Lambda now. Yeah, if you're not familiar with Lambda yet. But while we're at it, let's also see that var cannot be used with lambda. And let me repeat that cannot be used with lambda. So let's say for example, let's create an object from the function interface. And we'll let the input type of this function be string. The output type will be integer and I'll use a lambda expression after the equal sign. Now this expression will take any string and return the length of the string. To us, this expression is a lambda expression. Yes, yes. Now let's delete the type of this object and use var. Okay. And there's our friend the compilation error because the type of lambda expressions must be specified explicitly. Okay. So far so good. That's how you use the var keyword. So to summarize all this this keyword var allows us to write more concise and readable code, but it comes with its own limitations. But the key is knowing when and where to use it effectively. And that way you'll be able to avoid the common pitfalls. We're going to take a short break here. Hang around though. I'll see you in the next video.
