=== 1. Introduction to Wrapper Class in Java ===
So now in this section we will learn wrapper classes autoboxing and unboxing. So first up we're going to learn what the wrapper class is. Then we'll cover conversion of primitive types and wrapper classes. And then we'll go over Autoboxing and unboxing concepts that come with Java five. What is wrapper class. Now there's an obvious joke in here, but I want to stay as serious as can be. Wrapper classes are used for converting primitive data types into objects like byte to bite, int to integer, char to character, etc. the primitive data types are not objects, so they don't belong to any class and they are defined in the language itself. So sometimes it's required to convert data types into wrapper objects in the Java language. So the primary benefit of this process is the wrapper class of a particular primitive type can hold a lot of information. And it provides useful functions such as conversion from one type to another and all other suitable functionalities. In fact, you can see the wrapper classes of primitive types on this table here. The wrapper classes are defined in the Java.lang package. Now one of the places where wrapper classes are used is. Well, I'm going to show you in the following sections we're going to learn the Java Collection API. This allows us to store data in lists. Now there are some interfaces here such as list Q, DQ. And when defining these interfaces we need to specify their type. The type of these interfaces can only be an object, not primitive data types. That's why we need wrapper classes when we're working with collections. Okay. Yeah, don't worry about it. You'll understand it better when we get to the collections section. All right. All right, so we can wrap the wrapper classes with that. We'll take a short break here. And when we come back in the next video, we'll have a look at the conversion between primitives and wrappers. See you next time.

=== 2. Conversion of Types ===
Conversion. So we basically have two types of conversion. First one is primitive type to the wrapper class, and the second one is the wrapper class to primitive type. In the first type, we use two different ways for converting a primitive type into an object of the corresponding wrapper class. The first way is by using a constructor. As you see here in the example, we use constructor of the integer wrapper class to convert int primitive type to the integer wrapper class. So the second way is using a static method of the wrapper class. And as you see in the example, we use the value of static method of the integer class to convert the int primitive type to integer wrapper class. So the value of method returns an instance representing the specified int value. The second type. We use a way to convert wrapper class into a primitive type. So we can use the corresponding methods to get the primitive type. For example int value, double value, short value methods. And there's some others with Java five. This conversion is done automatically by using Autoboxing and unboxing. Let's have a look at these concepts.

=== 3. Autoboxing - UnBoxing ===
All right, all right. Hello everybody. Welcome back. So in the previous video we talked about the type conversion between the primitive and the wrapper classes. So we can actually easily convert the primitive and wrapper to each other with Java five and later. So this concept is actually named Autoboxing and unboxing in Java. So let's learn how to do it. Here's Autoboxing and auto unboxing in Java. Now before Autoboxing and unboxing type conversion was being done manually as you saw in the previous slide. But since Java five, the whole process happens automatically without having to write any code for conversion. Saves a whole lot of time. Frees up your brain for other stuff. Java provides two features called Autoboxing and auto unboxing. Okay, so let's have a look. See what they are. So when Java automatically converts a primitive type like int into a corresponding wrapper class object, for example integer, it's called Autoboxing. When Java automatically converts a wrapper class like integer into a corresponding primitive type, for example int, then it is called auto unboxing. Pretty straightforward, but let's do some examples with Autoboxing and unboxing and then you'll see it clearer. So let me just close this project and open the exercise project that we created before. Okay. So now I'll create a new package and a new class in this project. I'll specify the package name as boxing. And let the class name be Autoboxing unboxing. Okay, lastly, I'll add the main method. Now let's declare a variable that is named db with the wrapper class double and assign the value to 12.8. All right, so this is autoboxing of double. Because the conversion of the primitive double data type into wrapper, the double data type is done automatically. So let's declare a variable that's named D with the primitive double type and then assign the variable DB to it. And now this is auto unboxing of double. Because the conversion of primitive data types into corresponding wrapper data types is done automatically. Automatic conversion. And now let's print the value of the variable db and d by using our print method. Now in another example, let's declare a variable that's named n with the wrapper class integer and then assign the value of five to it. And this is autoboxing of int. So let's declare a variable that's named I with a primitive int type and assign a variable in to it. And this is auto unboxing of integer. And then we print the value of the variable in and I by using the print method. And then in the last example let's declare a variable that's named c h with the wrapper class character and assign a value the letter b between single quotes. And this is auto boxing of char. So let's declare a variable that's named C with a primitive char type, and then assign the variable c h to it. This is auto unboxing of character. And then we print the value of the variable h and c by using the print method. All right. So let's run the code. And just like that you can see the results in the console. So we have successfully performed the conversion between primitive and wrapper classes. So it is now time to chat about a really important issue that's been bugging me. And, um, I really would appreciate your listening. Did you notice that integer or double is a class A wrapper class? Therefore, we can create objects from these classes, and it's actually possible to assign a null value to these objects. Yeah. Check it out. For example. Let's create an object of the integer wrapper class and assign it a null value. Integer integer one equals null. Check it out. I don't see any errors. Do you see any errors? I don't see any errors because there are no errors. But we cannot assign null to primitive types. For example, let's just create a variable of the type primitive int and try to assign a null value to it. Int int one equals null. And just like that, that compilation error rears its ugly head. So the required type is int but the provided value is null. Okay. So that's why this is called a type mismatch error. The compiler cannot convert from null to int. Maybe that's logical. Certainly makes sense. So if we perform the cast, what do you think? Will the error go away? Well, let's try it and see. So if you pay attention, we still achieve the compilation error. But this time we will get a null pointer exception. And that will cause the runtime exception because we can never assign a null value to primitive variables. Yeah. Let's run it and see. Well there you have it my friends. We got the null pointer exception. But let me ask you this. Do you think assigning a null wrapper to a primitive will cause a compilation error or a runtime exception? Well, before you scratch your head in confusion, let's take a look. The value of the integer one object we defined here is null. Now let's assign it to an int primitive. Int int two equals integer one. Now look at that. The compiler doesn't throw an error, but it warns us that this will cause a null pointer exception. Let's run it and see if it's true. And there you go. We get the null pointer exception again. All right. So obviously this is an important point that you need to pay attention to when you are converting between the primitive and wrapper classes. All right. Let's take a short break. See you in the next video.
