=== 1. Section Overview ===
All right, my friends. Hello. So in this section let's talk about Java. So we're going to learn about Java technology. So first we'll cover the Java SE 21 Developer Professional exam. And next we'll learn what Java programming language actually is. And then you'll be ready to cover Java Development Kit, the JDK, Java Runtime Environment JRE and Java Virtual Machine JVM. In turn, we'll cover what an integrated development environment is. Then we'll be able to download and run IntelliJ Idea. Next we'll write the first Java program by using IntelliJ Idea. And then we'll be learning how to compile and run Java programs. It will actually be able to review the first Java program. So like I said I know you're ready. Let's get started.

=== 2. Some Information about Java SE 21 Developer Certified Professional 1Z0-830 Exam ===
Well. Hello my friends. So in this video let's talk about the Java SE 21 developer certificate. So of course you know Oracle requires you to obtain some certifications to become a professional Java developer. And naturally, in order to get these certificates, you're going to need to get an exceptional grade from those exams prepared by Oracle. So here it is the first step towards becoming a professional Java developer. Getting the Java SE 21 developer certification. So obviously this certificate is very important. And there is an exam that you've got to pass to get this certification. So here it is the Java SE 21 Developer Professional exam. Exam number is 10830. In order to become a professional Java developer you must first successfully pass this exam. Let's get into some of the content of this exam shall we? The Java SE 21 Developer Professional Exam is a multiple choice exam. I had to teach you, said multiple guests, but not with you anymore. This multiple choice exam consists of 50 questions. But here's the kicker. The duration of the exam is 120 minutes. Now, to be successful with this exam, you must answer 68% of the questions correctly. Now, if you want me to do the math, that means that you've got to answer at least 34 questions, right? All right. Now, the price of the exam, of course, varies depending on your location. In Europe, it's approximately €230. So my friends, like I say, you've got to pass these exams successfully to get your Java SE 21 developer certification. But guess what? By the end of this course, you're going to have enough knowledge to pass these exams without staying up all night trying to cram it all into your head. Yeah, you're going to be able to feel comfortable. You will be successful. So we're going to take a short break here. But when we come back on our next video, let's introduce Java. I'll see you on the other side.

=== 3. Basic Programming Terms ===
All right. Hello my friends. Welcome back. So in this video we're going to talk about some programming terms that are common to almost all programming languages. And naturally they're very useful for you especially when you're encountering Java. So in this video we're only going to talk about the basic meaning of these terms. But throughout our course we'll also talk about the detailed usage of the related term whenever appropriate. So let's get started. A package. Yeah. A package is an organized module of related interfaces and classes. Packages are used to organize classes that belong to the same category or provide related functionality. You can always think of a package as a file directory on your computer class. So in object oriented programming, a class refers to a set of related objects with common properties, classes, and the ability to create new classes. Render. OOP. Object oriented programming is a powerful and flexible programming model. So for example, there might be a class called animals which contains objects that are birds, cats, dogs, that kind of thing. You know what I'm talking about. Object. Now, an object is a combination of related variables, constant and other data structures that can be selected and manipulated together. An object can include shapes that appear on a screen or the age of students in a school. You know the drill. Object oriented programming. Yes. OOP. Object oriented programming. This is a model defined by programmers that revolves around objects and data, rather than actions and logic. Right. So in OOP, not only the data type of a data structure is defined, but also the types of functions that can be applied to it. Right. So it's through this the data structure becomes an object that consists of both data and functions you follow. So languages that use OOP concepts or Java, Kotlin, Python, many others. But the point is it's not only the data type of the data structure, but also the types of functions it can be applied to it. Moving on method or function. So a method is just a block of code that can be referenced by name to run the code it contains. Argument arg parameter. So the argument or arg is a value that is passed into a command or a function. So for example, if calculate area is a method that returns the area of a rectangle, then calculate area width three. Height four will return 12. So here the width three and height four are the arguments. All right. So that's some of the terms that you'll often hear throughout our course here. But we do need to take a short break. And when we come back in the next video we'll talk about Java. I'll see you on the other side.

=== 4. Getting Started With Java ===
All right. Hello everybody. Welcome back. So in this video. Yeah we're going to talk about the Java programming language. Java is a programming language and a computing platform for application development. Yeah. It was actually first released by Sun Microsystems in 1995 and later acquired by the Oracle Corporation. So now it's actually one of the most used and popular programming languages on the planet. So the Java platform, it's a collection of programs that help to develop and run programs written in the Java programming language. It makes sense, but the Java platform includes an execution engine, a compiler, as well as a set of libraries. Now, Java is also a platform independent language. That means it's not specific to any processor or operating system. It's intended to let application developers write once, run anywhere, and that just means that compiled Java code can run on all platforms that support Java without the need for recompilation. So, for example, you can write and compile a Java program on Unix and run it on Microsoft Windows, Macintosh or Linux machines without any modifications to the source code. Write once, run anywhere. It's achieved by compiling a Java program into an intermediate language called bytecode. Now the format of bytecode is platform independent, but remember, each machine must have a Java virtual machine installed. If you're new to the concept, don't worry about it. By the end of this, you're going to be a wiz. Now, in addition, the Java programming language is an object oriented language. You remember that from before, right? So in Java, everything is an object. So since it's based on the object model, Java can easily be extended. Java is designed to be easy to learn as well, so if you understand the basic concept of object oriented programming, this is going to be easy to master. Will actually cover object oriented programming concepts in some of these upcoming videos. So the general purpose high level Java programming language is a very powerful software platform. Every full implementation of the Java platform gives you the following features. Development tools. The development tools provide everything you'll need for compiling, running, monitoring, debugging, as well as documenting your applications. Now, as a new developer, the main tools you'll be using are the Javac compiler, the Java Launcher, and the Javadoc documentation tool. Application Programming Interface API. So the API provides the core functionality of the Java programming language. It offers a wide variety of useful classes ready for use in your own applications. And it spans everything from basic objects to networking and security, to XML generation and database access, and much more. The core API is very large deployment technologies, so the JDK software provides standard mechanisms such as the Java Web Start software and Java plugin software for deploying your applications to end users. User interface toolkits. The Java Swing and Java 2D toolkit make it possible to create sophisticated graphical user interfaces. GIS or GIS, as some people say. Integration libraries. Now, we mentioned this before, but integration libraries such as the Java IDL API, JDBC API, Java Naming and Directory Interface, Jndi API, Java RMI and Java Remote Method invocation over internet Inter-orb protocol technology say that three times fast Java MRI, iop tech. We can say anyway these enabled database access and manipulation of remote objects. So now that you know all this information about the Java programming language, let's have a look at what is JDK, JRE and JVM. So we've got the Java Development Kit JDK. It's a software development environment that's used to develop Java applications. The package is going to include all tools to develop with Java. If you want to develop and run the applications, you are required of course to set up JDK on your machine. So the JDK contains the Java Runtime environment, JRE and development tools. The development tools are compilers, Java debugger and more. We'll get to all that soon, but let's have a look at the Java runtime environment. The JRE. This is the software package that bundles the libraries, the Java Virtual Machine and other components to run applications written in Java. So the JRE is the runtime portion of Java software, which is all you actually need to run it in your web browser. It contains Java, virtual machine, JVM, and libraries. Now, the Java Virtual Machine is a virtual machine that runs Java programs. So when you run the Java program, the Java compiler first compiles your Java code to bytecode And you get this bytecode by compiling the Java files into dot class files. Yeah, the dot class files contain the bytecode understood by the JVM. Briefly, if you are a Java programmer, you will need JDK to develop and run the applications, and this package will include JRE and JVM as well. But if you're just a normal user like most people, but let's say that you like to play online games or run only programs written in Java, well, then you're going to only need JRE and this package will not have JDK in it. You follow? All right, my friends, I think that's enough about what Java is. So now we're ready to install Java on our computers. But we're going to take a short break here and we'll continue right where we leave off next time. See you then.

=== 5. Download and Install Java on Windows ===
All right, all right. Hello friends. So welcome back. Now in this video we're going to prepare our computers to write code in order to develop programs using this wonderful Java programming language you've been talking about. So for this we'll first install the Java Development kit, the JDK. Now earlier we were talking about the Java language that runs on the Java Virtual machine. Therefore, in order to develop applications using the Java language, we're going to need to install JDK on our computers. All right. So now that that's out of the way I'm glad we had this little chat. Let's go ahead and move on to the JDK installation. Now let's find out first of all if we actually have Java installed on our computer. So in order to do that just open up a command prompt. I'll click the search bar here and type the command prompt and open the command prompt. Here, I'll write Java. After space, I'll write dash version. Now I'll click enter. Now, if we do have Java installed on our computer, this command will show us a version of the installed Java. But as you can see, it didn't recognize the command. Therefore, we're pretty sure that we don't have Java on this computer. But I have no fear. We can always download Java with peace of mind and clarity of thought. I'll just open up a browser. I choose Google Chrome, but of course you can use any browser you want. Now let's write download JDK in the search bar. And from the results I can open up Java Downloads page on the Oracle.com site. If you notice, the most up to date version of Java is Java 22 and it is available. But I'll tell you what. We're going to install Java 21 for the Java Standard Edition 21 Developer certificate. You see the correlation, right? For now, Java 21 is offered directly here. However, you see, as the new versions are released, you might not see Java 21 anymore. So wouldn't it be more accurate to download from the archive section? Well, let's click on the Java Archive tab here. Now make sure Java Standard Edition is selected in the menu over here on the left. Yeah. So here you can see all the different Java versions. And now let's click on Java 21. I'll just scroll down this page. So here you can actually see the download options of this Java SE 21. From here we can download the appropriate JDK for our own computer. And as you can see there are JDK installation files for Linux, Mac, windows, whatever your operating system is. Perhaps you might have guessed my computer happens to be windows 64 bit. Now, I might just have to point out here, if you don't happen to know your computer's operating system and how many bits. Well, you can just find out like this. Click on the windows icon in the lower left corner and open settings. And in this window that opens, click the system tab. When you select the about option at the bottom of the window that opens the window containing the basic properties of the computer will open. So you see from this window you can find out your operating system how many bits it is. Now let's continue where we left off. So since my operating system is 164 bit, I'll choose a JDK 21 for windows 64 64.. Exe option from here and you can see that the download started. Also, at this stage a pop up might just open up asking you to confirm the license agreement. And guess what? You must confirm the agreement in order to continue. Now you may also be asked to log in with your Oracle account. If you have an Oracle account that you've created before, you can always go ahead and log in with that account. Start the download process. But if you don't happen to have an Oracle account, don't worry because you can always create one just by clicking on the create a New account button in the pop up that opens. Creating an Oracle account is very simple. It's free. But see, after creating an Oracle account and logging in, then you're going to see the download process. Go ahead as expected. Now here's the thing. The download may take some time depending on your internet speed. So I'm just going to stop this screen recording here. And then when it's complete, we'll just pick it right back up again. So here you see that my download is complete. Good good good. So you can see here right. We've obtained a dot exe file. So now let's go ahead and run this file. So I'll right click and select the run as administrator for my option. Now at this stage windows operating system gives a warning. Do you want to run this file. Well yeah I mean that's why I clicked it. So I'll click the run button. You might not get that warning, but it's not important. Anyway I just wanted to point it out because sometimes it's there. So you can see the setup wizard gets open and I can click the next button. So in this window it shows us the path of the file where the JDK is going to be installed. So I'll click the next button once more without changing that location. All right. So now you can see the installation process has begun. Now this process may take a little while, but you really should wait for the entire installation to finish before you do anything else. All right. So here you see the JDK install is complete. I'll just close this window. Now let's open program files by selecting this PC and local disk. That's my C drive option. And as you can see there is a Java folder. You may remember that this file did not exist before I installed it. So when the installation is complete, this file gets created and all the necessary files are collected under this Java file. So now I'll just open up the Java folder. All right. So here you can see that JDK folder. So that means we've also installed the JDK on our computer successfully. But we do have one more step left to do. We'll need to define the path of the java.exe file in the JDK folder here the operating system. So for this I'll open up the JDK folder. I also open the bin folder. Now let's find the Java file here. Well there it is. So now let's define the path of this file to the system. So first up I'll click on the address bar at the top of the window and copy the file path here by pressing the control and C keys on the keyboard. Now let's define this file path to the system. So I right click on this PC from the left side and select the properties option from the drop down menu. So from this window that opens you can actually learn some pretty basic information about your operating system. Now select the Advanced System Settings option On the right, I select the Environment Variables option from the System Properties window that opens. Now I want you to notice something here. There's a couple of different sections right. So we'll use the bottom section namely the system variables section to define the JDK for the system. So after selecting the path option from the section here I'll choose the edit option. So here we'll need to paste the path to the Java file in the bin folder. And for this I can click the new button and paste the file path that we just copied by pressing Ctrl and V on the keyboard right into the field that opens. Good. So you follow what we've done right? We have defined the JDK file for the system. So the meaning of this process is this. If you want the operating system to run Java, the operating system has to know where the java.exe file is, otherwise it won't be able to run Java. For that reason, we've defined the folder where this java.exe file is located within the operating system. So now we can go ahead and close these windows. But lastly, let's just check the Java version from the command prompt again so you can see how it works. Very good. I'll run the Java version command again. And if everything goes right you'll see which version of Java. Well there it is. All right my friends. So that is installing JDK for windows. We're going to take a short break here if you need it. And in our next video we're going to talk about the Integrated Development Environment or IDE. See you next time.

=== 6. Download and Install Java on MacOS ===
Well. Hello my friends. So in this video we're going to prepare our Mac to write code in order to develop programs using the Java programming language. So for this we'll first install the Java Development kit, the JDK. Now earlier we were talking about the Java language that runs on the Java Virtual machine. Therefore, in order to develop applications using the Java language, we're going to need to install JDK on our computers. All right. So now that that's out of the way I'm glad we had this little chat. Let's go ahead and move on to the JDK installation now. So first let's just find out if we even have Java installed on our computer. And to do this I'll just open up a terminal. You can always open up the terminal by clicking on the search icon here and typing terminal. That's your spotlight working for you. Or you can open the terminal using finder. So after opening finder, open the applications folder. You can then find the terminal application in the utilities folder. So however you get the terminal right Java after space I'll write dash version. Now I'll click enter. Now if we do have Java installed on our computer, this command will show us a version of the installed Java. But as you can see it didn't recognize the command. Therefore, we're pretty sure that we don't have Java on this computer. But I have no fear. We can always download Java with peace of mind and clarity of thought. I'll just open up a browser. I choose Google Chrome, but of course you can use any browser you want. Now let's write download JDK in the search bar. And from the results I can open up Java downloads page on the Oracle.com site. If you notice, the most up to date version of Java is Java 22 and it is available, but I'll tell you what. We're going to install Java 21 for the Java Standard Edition 21 Developer certificate. You see the correlation, right? For now, Java 21 is offered directly here. However, you see, as the new versions are released, you might not see Java 21 anymore. So wouldn't it be more accurate to download from the archive section? Well, let's click on the Java Archive tab here. Now make sure Java Standard Edition is selected in the menu over here on the left. Yeah. So here you can see all the different Java versions. And now let's click on Java 21. I'll just scroll down this page. So here you can actually see the download options of this Java SC 21. From here we can download the appropriate JDK for our own computer. And as you can see there are JDK installation files for Linux, Mac, windows whatever your operating system is. Now if you notice there are x64 and arm64 options for Mac OS. If your Mac has an Intel processor, you should obviously use the x64 options. If your Mac is Apple Silicon, that is any of those M processors, you should choose the arm arm64. All right. Now I also want to show you how to find out quickly. If you click on the Apple icon in the upper left corner and select about this Mac, you can see your processor in the window that opens. So if it says Intel here, your Mac has an Intel processor. But if you've got expressions like M1 or M2 instead of Intel, your Mac has that Apple silicon processor. All right. Let's continue where we left off. So I'm going to select the Mac OS arm 64 DMG installer. And you can see that the download started. Also at this stage a pop up might just open up asking you to confirm the license agreement. And guess what? You must confirm the agreement in order to continue. Now you may also be asked to log in with your Oracle account if you have an Oracle account that you've created before. You can always go ahead and log in with that account. Start the download process. But if you don't happen to have an Oracle account, don't worry because you can always create one just by clicking on the create a New account button in the pop up that opens. Creating an Oracle account is very simple. It's free. But see, after creating an Oracle account and logging in, then you're going to see the download process will go ahead as expected. Now here's the thing. The download may take some time, depending on your internet speed. So I'm just going to stop this screen recording here. And then when it's complete, we'll just pick it right back up again. And now that's complete my friends I'll just open up that downloads folder. I can double click on the DMG installer so you can see that we've got this setup wizard open. And I'll double click on this box to start the installation. And I'm going to close any of these pages that are still open. So in this window I'll just click on the continue button. And now it's asking where to install Java. Now it's actually enough for us to just leave these steps by default. I'll just click Install software. Okay. So at this stage the operating system asks you to enter the system password. So close your eyes for a minute I'm going to enter the password and okay you can open them back up again. So once that begins well you might have to wait for a moment or two. All right. So once it's finished I can click the close button. And that'll close the installer. Lastly we can actually move the disk image to the trash. Or go ahead. And if it asks you to do so you can go ahead and do that. And there you have it. The installation is done. Oh yeah. Let's go back and check the Java version from the terminal. Let me just open up the terminal. I'll run the Java Dash version command again. And if everything goes right you'll see which version of Java. Well, there it is. We're going to take a short break here if you need it. And in our next video we're going to talk about the Integrated Development Environment or IDE. See you next time.

=== 7. What is IDE ===
Well hello everybody. Welcome back. So in this video we're going to talk about what integrated development environment what's called the IDE really is. So IDE is actually a software application. But it combines all of the features and tools needed by a software developer. Now, a developer may debug, run and test applications with IDE because it provides useful debugging and testing features. You see, IDE helps us quickly navigate to a type without needing to worry about our projects. It also provides auto completion, which means you type part of a function or class name and press a shortcut combination, and the rest of the name is automatically typed down. So all these features are good reasons for you to prefer an IDE, right? Most use Ides for Java are IntelliJ, eclipse, and NetBeans. I actually prefer IntelliJ Idea, And that's what you'll be using. Well, that's what you'll be seeing us use in this course. So if you haven't seen it before, you could consider this an introduction to IntelliJ. IntelliJ Idea meet all the wonderful people. Anyway, IntelliJ Idea, one of JetBrains Ides. It's an integrated development environment that's IDE for Java and Kotlin designed to maximize developer productivity. Who doesn't want that? So IntelliJ Idea is very powerful. It's an advanced text editor with a lot of plugins and tools. With IntelliJ Idea, you can write your Java programs much faster and execute them with a push of a button. Also, the plugin architecture gives you the ability to constantly add the development tools that you need, as you need them. Also, there's lots of features in IntelliJ Idea. If you do want to learn more, just check out the official IntelliJ Idea help documents, but you can do that on your own time. So I want to show you the system requirements for IntelliJ Idea, just in case you need to know. IntelliJ Idea uses minimum of two gigabytes of Ram. Therefore obviously it's recommended that your computer has eight gigabytes of Ram. IntelliJ Idea requires a minimum of 3.5GB of disk space. Therefore, it's recommended that you have a minimum of five gigabytes of free disk space on your computer. Now, for your operating system, you can run IntelliJ Idea on Windows 10 64 bit and later Mac OS 12 and later, and ubuntu LTS or Fedora Linux. Now you know a little bit about IntelliJ Idea. We can now actually deal with its installation process. So why don't we go ahead and install the IntelliJ Idea. But we're going to do that next time when we come back in the next video. See you then.

=== 8. Download and Install IntelliJ on Windows ===
All right, all right, all right. Hello my friends. Welcome back. So in this video we're going to download and install IntelliJ Idea. So installing IntelliJ Idea is really pretty easy. So in this video we're just going to download and install the IntelliJ Idea for windows. If you're using Mac OS you can skip this video of course. So if you're using windows let's start the download of IntelliJ Idea. So you'll see me open up a web browser. Now I'm preferring Google here, but you can always use another browser if you want. I'm going to search for download IntelliJ, and you can tell from the results here that I'll just click on download IntelliJ Idea from the JetBrains. Com site, which happens to be the official page where you can download IntelliJ Idea. You do have to note that there are a few different download options for all operating systems. Now, since we are installing windows in this video, let's just make sure that the windows tab is selected. And another point that you need to pay attention to is that IntelliJ Idea has both a paid and a free version. So if you click on the download button here or the download button on the top right, you're going to download the paid version of IntelliJ Idea. So note that this is the ultimate version of IntelliJ Idea right now. You can use it free for the first 30 days, but what we're going to do is actually download the free version of IntelliJ Idea. So if you scroll down the page a little bit, you will see this wonderful community version of IntelliJ Idea. So the IntelliJ Idea community is free, and it's actually the preferred version for basic Java and Kotlin developers. So therefore we're going to grab this version. We'll click on the download button here and it'll download. Sure enough the download process starts. And again it might take a little bit of time. File size is actually close to a gigabyte. So you know what I'm just going to stop the video here. And when it's finished we'll pick it up. And now that it's done you can see it's complete. Let's just open up the downloads folder of our computer to view the file. And we can open up this file by double clicking on it or running it as administrator. Now of course, windows might just ask you if you want to run this file. Well, I'll just say yes. And you can see the installation wizard opens, and we'll move on to the next step by clicking the next button. All right. So once in this window, the file path where the installation will be put is shown. Now you can change the installation path. It's actually preferred to keep the default file path. So I'm going to click on the next button and move on to the next step. Now there are a number of installation options in this window. Uh let's see. So for example if we want to create a shortcut on the desktop we can check this box. Another option is the Update Context menu. This option just allows IntelliJ Idea to be added to the right click menu for files and folders. Now if you go ahead and check this option, you will have the option to open files or folders with IntelliJ Idea just by right clicking on them. It's very useful when you want to open files quickly with IntelliJ Idea, but I'm not going to check this option for now. And there's another option this update path variable. So this option allows IntelliJ Idea to add them to the path variable. So path variable is used as a list of directories of executable files on the system. I wonder if you remember we manually defined the file path to the system after installing Java. So adding IntelliJ Idea to path is actually necessary to directly call IntelliJ Idea commands from the command line. Yeah. Now if you check this option you might need to restart your computer after the install. But let's have a look at the last option. Create associations. So what this option does is allows IntelliJ Idea to set certain file types as the default opener. For example, if you check Java, IntelliJ Idea will automatically open these types of files when you double click them or want to open them. So you can also choose this for other files if you want. All right. So after you're done selecting the installation options, let's just go ahead and click on the next button once more. And on this page it asks us to select a folder to add to the start menu or create a new folder. Now creating a menu file named JetBrains will just be enough for us at this stage. So now we can start our installation by clicking the install button. And of course, the installation might take a moment, but who doesn't have a moment to spare? All right, you can see the installation is complete. And if we want to, we could start IntelliJ Idea directly by checking the box here. But I want to open it using the shortcut that we created on the desktop. Therefore, I'll just click the finish button and close this window. Now let's go ahead and open up IntelliJ Idea by double clicking on the shortcut on the desktop. When you double click IntelliJ Idea on your desktop, though, the IntelliJ Idea user agreement opens. So the JetBrains Community Edition terms and conditions are located here. Obviously we'll need to accept this to continue. There's also some information about data sharing in this window. You can share data to contribute to the development of JetBrains products. I'm not going to be sharing data for now as I'm showing you. So in this window, it's going to ask whether I will import the settings in Visual Studio Code here. Now you might not see this screen, so I'll just skip this step without importing. Well now you've done it my friends. Congratulations. Since we've now successfully completed the installation of IntelliJ Idea, now this screen will be the screen that you will see when you open up IntelliJ Idea. This will be the main screen that you'll use to create a new project. Open up a project that you've created before or even pull a project from version control systems. So let's have a look at this screen. Just you know, overall you can see that there are some menus over here on the left. First menu is a projects menu. And we'll be using this to create a project or open an existing project. The other menu is the customize menu. So here we can make some customizations. For example, it's possible to change the theme of the IDE. IntelliJ Idea came with a dark theme by default, but I think I want to use a light theme throughout this course. It's just looks better for the Screen recording for some reason. Anyway, it's obviously possible to change this from the appearance section. Right now, another feature I wanted to point out is you can change the language of the IDE, but for our purposes we're going to keep it English. Now again you can change the font of your IDE. Usually the default size can be a little small. Always depends on your environment, but I'll just increase this value a little bit so that you can follow the videos a bit better. All right. So finally you can change the keyboard feature from the Keymap section. If there's a keyboard type belonging to the Ides that you've used before, you can go ahead and select it from here and continue. This way your habits of your fingers. No judgment, but just whatever you're used to will be here, right? And of course, I'm selecting windows and I'll continue. Now because of these kinds of customizations, IntelliJ Idea contributes a lot to speeding up our work while we're writing code. Okay, so let's have a look at the next menu, which is the plugin menu. So from the plugin menu you can actually add some plugins to your IDE if you need to. And lookie here you got two tabs marketplace and installed. Let's have a look at the installed tab. You can see the plugins that you've downloaded before. If you have and what's in the marketplace tab, you can find the plugin that you need and then add it to your IDE. Now let's just click on the gear at the bottom left and that's called the settings icon. So you can get information about the version of your IDE just by using the about option here. I'm just going to close up this window. And these other options don't really use them that much, but we can just go through them real quick, see if the IDE is up to date with the check for updates option at the bottom. If there's an update, of course we can do it from here, but as you see, we're currently using the most up to date version because we just installed it. Anyway, this is a quick rundown of what you got in settings. Now let's get to the point here and create a new Java project in IntelliJ Idea. So if you want to open an existing project, you should use the open option. And if you want to open a project from a version control system, you should use the get from VCs, namely version control system option. But of course we're going to be creating a new project. Therefore I'll click on the new project option. So we will configure our project in this window. We'll choose what kind of project that we want to create over here on the left. And since we'll be creating Java projects throughout the course, make sure Java is selected here. Yeah. So we'll need to specify a name for our project in this section. For example, let's call our project my first project. So on the location section we can set the file path where our project will be saved. It'll be easier that way to, you know, create a folder on your computer, collect your Java projects in this folder. So I'll also create a folder called IntelliJ projects and I'll save these projects there. Okay. so we've determined the location where projects will be saved. With this option you can create a git repo with your project. Now I might need to explain a little bit for those who don't know. So git is a version control system basically. Um, so when you use git you can actually save the changes that you make to a project and then revert to a version that you want. However, git will not be included in our course topic, so I'm not going to check this box. If you're all about the git, then you know how to use it. Okay, from here you can select the build system of our project. So the build system options determine which toolkit you'll use to compile and manage your project. IntelliJ Idea's option is suitable for simple projects and doesn't actually require any additional configuration files. Maven is an old and widely used build system for Java projects. It uses an XML based configuration file. It's especially preferred in enterprise level projects and actually finds wide support in large ecosystems. Gradle is a modern and very popular build automation tool. It's widely used in Java projects and provides an extensible configuration file. Gradle also facilitates dependency management, testing and deployment processes, and it's especially widely used in Android projects. Now, since we'll be covering topics related to the certificate, and since we'll generally work with console applications at this point, we can actually continue with IntelliJ. So this next section is where we will determine the JDK we will use. So even if you do not install any JDK, there's already a JDK embedded in IntelliJ. And right now it's JDK 21. But you see, since this version may differ, it's useful to manually select a JDK 21 that we downloaded and installed. And if you look closer, there are some other options. For example, you can. Well, if you've never installed a JDK, you can install the JDK using this option. Now, if for some reason you're not actually working towards the certificate, you can use the registered JDK here. However, since we will be working towards the Java SE 21 certificate, we're going to select the JDK 21 that we downloaded and installed in the previous video. So therefore let's select the add JDK from disk option. I'm sure you remember the path of the JDK was program files Java JDK 21. Now let's select this folder. All right. So we have now also defined the JDK. In the next section we're going to specify whether we want to create sample code by default when the project gets created. We can uncheck this of course. And I would suggest you do that now because we're going to do everything together from the beginning. Okay. Now finally there is a section here called Advanced Settings. But this section will remain default. You don't need to make any changes there. Okay. So now that we've got our configuration complete we can actually create our first project by clicking on the create button. So the creation process of the project has now begun. Of course, the creation of the first project might take a little while. If you look down here, the bottom right part of the interface, we can see an expression of the build process of the project. So here, my friends, we really don't want to mess around with it because we just want to let it be. In other words. So before you see anything that says complete, just don't touch it. It's well, I'll just put it this way. You might just encounter some problems in your projects. Best to leave it alone. But that didn't take very long now, did it? And as you can see, our project's been created. Now we can get in there and examine the interface of IntelliJ Idea. The moment you've been waiting for. So check it out. The section on the left is a section where the project files are located. I wonder if you notice there's a folder created with the name of our project. Wow. That's good. So under that there's a folder called src or source. We're going to create our Java classes inside the src folder. The second part is the part where we do the coding. And this is called the editor. Of course since we haven't created any Java classes yet, this is empty and we'll be using this section frequently in the coming videos actually. So now we can have a look at the menu at the top of the interface. If you click on this menu icon, you can see many windows in many interfaces from the file tab to the help tab. First, let's see what's underneath this file tab. Whoa. So you can see there's many features going on here, but we're just going to examine the features that we're going to need to use as our base throughout the course. Of course we'll examine other features as needed. But first you can actually create a new project by using the new and new project options from here. By using the open option, you can open up a project that you've created before. You can always access the projects that you've used recently with the recent projects option. You can also close your project by using the Closed project option. You can use the settings option here to make the necessary settings for IntelliJ Idea. Let's go ahead and open the settings. So here you can actually change the theme of the IDE from the appearance section. Oh yeah. You can also search for the feature that you want from the search bar. So let's say, for example, the size of the text and the area where we will be coding is quite small. So I'll just increase the font size of the editor so you can see it better. So for that I'll just type font into the search bar. And there you see when you type in font the relevant features are now available to change the necessary features. I'll just select the font option here and then delete the text font from the search bar. And now we've got relevant fields active. I'll set the font size of the editor 16. So if you click okay or apply at the bottom right you will have applied the changes. So yeah that's enough of the settings section. Let's have a look at another option under the file menu the project structure. So in the project structure you can find the name of your project and the SDK it uses. You can also define your project's JDK here, or change the JDK version whenever you want. There's one last option under the file menu that I want to show you though the invalidate caches and restart. Now, sometimes our project might not compile properly or while developing a project, we might just find that the IDE doesn't recognize some features or tabs. These can usually be caused by just some remnants in the cache. So whenever that happens, we use the Invalidate and Restart option to clear the cache and restart the IDE. As simple as that. Now that's all I really want to tell you about the file menu. Let's go ahead and look at the edit menu. Okay. Yeah. So you can use this menu for operations like cut copy and paste just like you would imagine. But since we already do these with keyboard shortcuts don't really come up here much. So let's have a look at the view menu then. So when you use this tab you can toggle many views in the interface. For example by using the tool window tab. Here we can open the tools on the edges of the interface directly. For example let's open the run window from here. All right so this is the window where console outputs get displayed. And again from the appearance section here you can choose which tools you want to appear on the edge of the interface. For example if we uncheck the toolbar from here, as you can see the toolbar containing the project name and version control tabs. Whoa. Where'd they go? Okay, so now I'll just check the toolbar option again. Now also, if you notice there's a navigation bar in the lower left corner of the interface. So I'm going to move it to the top of the interface. And for this process, we're just going to use the appearance option in the view menu. And we also use the appearance option in the view tab to remove or show the status bar whenever you need to check your status about your project. All right. So that's all I'm going to tell you about that. I want to show you a little bit about the code menu next. So in this menu you can find the frequently used operations such as single line comment, multi-line comment and code reformatting and accessing their shortcuts. Now another menu to I'll take you through the build menu. Sometimes after the project is created, some errors can occur and in this case you may need to rebuild your project. So to rebuild the project you can use the rebuild project option from here and again. From the run menu, you can find options such as running the project and debugging. Also use uh, some of these other menus when necessary, but we don't need to go through them. But if you notice there is a play icon and a bug icon here. So the play icon is used to run your project. The bug icon gets used for debugging, but you don't have to think about that yet. So there you go. That's a quick tour through IntelliJ Idea's interface. I've shown you the parts that are most relevant for what we're going to be doing, and we'll take a short break here if you want. But when we come back in the next video, we're going to write our first Java program. So my friends, I'll see you in the next video.

=== 9. Download and Install IntelliJ on MacOS ===
All right, my friends. So here we are in this video where we're going to download and install the IntelliJ Idea on those of you who are using Macintosh oriented systems. Naturally, installing IntelliJ Idea is pretty easy. So in this video we're just going to download and install IntelliJ Idea for macOS. Naturally, if you're using windows, well, you can go ahead and skip this video unless you're kind of curious how the other side lives. So if you're ready, let's just get started with downloading IntelliJ Idea. So I'm going to open up a web browser. Naturally. I prefer Google because you've seen me do that before. You can always use another browser if you want to. So see how I'm searching for download IntelliJ and. From the results that show up, I just click on download IntelliJ Idea from the JetBrains Com site. And just make sure that the page is the official web page where you can download IntelliJ Idea. You got to note, though, that there are a few different download options for all the variety of operating system supported. And since we'll be installing Mac OS, like I said earlier, just make sure that the Mac OS tab is selected. And another point that you need to pay attention to is that IntelliJ Idea has both a paid and a free version. So if you click on the download button here or the download button on the top right, you're going to download the paid version of IntelliJ Idea. So note that this is the ultimate version of IntelliJ Idea. Right now you can use it free for the first 30 days. But what we're going to do is actually download the free version of IntelliJ Idea. So if you scroll down the page a little bit, you will see this wonderful community version of IntelliJ Idea. So the IntelliJ Idea community is free, and it's actually the preferred version for basic Java and Kotlin developers. So therefore we're going to grab this version. We'll click on the download button here and it'll download. Sure enough the download process starts. And again it might take a little bit of time. File size is actually close to a gigabyte. So you know what I'm just going to stop the video here. And when it's finished we'll pick it up. And now that it's done, you can see it's complete. Let's just open up the downloads folder of our computer to view the file. Now let's go ahead and open up this file just by double clicking on it. And in this window we just need to drag and drop the IntelliJ Idea application into the applications folder and check it out. As you can see, it's arrived in this application folder. Now we can close this window and continue. We can double click on the IntelliJ Idea Community Edition application. And see this. The operating system asks if the application is trustworthy. Since we've just downloaded it from that JetBrains site, we can indeed trust it. Now here's some information about data sharing. In this window, you can share data to contribute to the development of JetBrains products. But because we're just doing this temporarily, I'm not going to share this for now. And that's all you do. Congratulations friends. We are now successfully downloaded and completed the installation of IntelliJ Idea for Mac OS. Now this screen will be the screen that you will see when you open up IntelliJ Idea. This will be the main screen that you'll use to create a new project. Open up a project that you've created before or even pull a project from version control systems. So let's have a look at this screen. Just you know, overall you can see that there are some menus over here on the left. First menu is a projects menu. And we'll be using this to create a project or open an existing project. The other menu is the customize menu. So here we can make some customizations. For example, it's possible to change the theme of the IDE. IntelliJ Idea came with a dark theme by default, but I think I want to use a light theme throughout this course. It's just looks better for the screen recording for some reason. Anyway, it's obviously possible to change this from the appearance section right now. Another feature I wanted to point out is you can change the language of the IDE, but for our purposes we're going to keep it English. Now again, you can change the font of your IDE. Usually the default size can be a little small. Always depends on your environment, but I'll just increase this value a little bit so that you can follow the videos a bit better. All right. So finally you can change the keyboard feature from the Keymap section. If there's a keyboard type belonging to the Ides that you've used before, you can go ahead and select it from here and continue this way. Your habits of your fingers no judgment, but just whatever you're used to will be here right now. Because of these kinds of customizations, IntelliJ Idea contributes a lot to speeding up our work while we're writing code. Okay, so let's have a look at the next menu, which is the plugin menu. So from the plugin menu you can actually add some plugins to your IDE if you need to. And lookie here you got two tabs marketplace and installed. Let's have a look at the installed tab. You can see the plugins that you've downloaded before. If you have and what's in the marketplace tab, you can find the plugin that you need and then add it to your IDE. Now let's just click on the gear at the bottom left. And that's called the settings icon. So you can get information about the version of your IDE just by using the about option here. I'm just going to close up this window. And these other options don't really use them that much, but we can just go through them real quick, see if the IDE is up to date with the check for updates option at the bottom. If there's an update, of course we can do it from here, but as you see, we're currently using the most up to date version because we just installed it. Anyway, this is a quick rundown of what you got in settings. Now let's get to the point here and create a new Java project in IntelliJ Idea. So if you want to open an existing project, you should use the open option. And if you want to open a project from a version control system, you should use the get from VCs, namely version Control system option. But of course we're going to be creating a new project. Therefore I'll click on the new project option. So we will configure our project. In this window we'll choose what kind of project that we want to create over here on the left. And since we'll be creating Java projects throughout the course, make sure Java is selected here. Yeah. So we'll need to specify a name for a project in this section. For example, let's call our project my first project. So on the locations section we can set the file path where our project will be saved. It'll be easier that way to, you know, create a folder on your computer, collect your Java projects in this folder. So I'll also create a folder called IntelliJ projects and I'll save these projects there. Okay. So we've determined the location where our projects will be saved. With this option you can create a git repo with your project. Now I might need to explain a little bit for those who don't know. So git is a version control system, basically. Um, so when you use git, you can actually save the changes that you make to a project and then revert to a version that you want. However, git will not be included in our course topic, so I'm not going to check this box. If you're all about the git, then you know how to use it. Okay, from here you can select the build system of our project. So the build system options determine which toolkit you'll use to compile and manage your project. IntelliJ Ideas option is suitable for simple projects and doesn't actually require any additional configuration files. Maven is an old and widely used build system for Java projects. It uses an XML based configuration file. It's especially preferred in enterprise level projects and actually finds wide support in large ecosystems. Gradle is a modern and very popular build automation tool. It's widely used in Java projects and provides an extensible configuration file. Gradle also facilitates dependency management, testing and deployment processes, and it's especially widely used in Android projects. Now, since we'll be covering topics related to the certificate, and since we'll generally work with console applications at this point, we can actually continue with IntelliJ. Now this next section, that's where we'll determine the JDK that we'll use. Even if you don't install any JDK, there is actually already a JDK embedded in IntelliJ. Right now it happens to be JDK 21. But I'm just telling you this because this version may differ. so it's actually quite useful to manually select the JDK 21 that we downloaded and installed earlier. So check out some of the other options here. For example, if you have never installed a JDK, you can install the JDK using this option. So if you for whatever reason are not working towards your certificate, you can use the registered JDK here. Naturally. What else are you doing here? Right. We are working toward the Java SE 21 certificate. So we will select the JDK 21 that we downloaded and installed previously. Therefore we're going to select the add JDK from disk for the option. So did you notice it takes us directly to the Java Virtual Machine folder. You remember we install the JDK in the previous video and these folders were actually created after the JDK insulation. So if you haven't yet installed the JDK, you won't see these folders. But now there should be a folder called home in the JDK folder. IntelliJ wants us to select that home folder and there you see it with your own eyes. Right? The home folder is here. Let's go ahead and select it and continue. All right. So we have now also defined the JDK. In the next section we're going to specify whether we want to create sample code by default when the project gets created. We can uncheck this of course. And I would suggest you do that now because we're going to do everything together from the beginning. Okay. Now finally there is a section here called Advanced Settings. But this section will remain default. You don't need to make any changes there. Okay. So now that we've got our configuration complete We can actually create our first project by clicking on the create button. So the creation process of the project has now begun. Of course, the creation of the first project might take a little while. If you look down here, the bottom right part of the interface, we can see an expression of the build process of the project. So here, my friends, we really don't want to mess around with it because we just want to let it be. In other words. So before you see anything that says complete, just don't touch it. It's well, I'll just put it this way. You might just encounter some problems in your projects. Best to leave it alone. But that didn't take very long now, did it? And as you can see, our project's been created. Now we can get in there and examine the interface of IntelliJ Idea. The moment you've been waiting for. So check it out. The section on the left is a section where the project files are located. I wonder if you notice there's a folder created with the name of our project. Wow. That's good. So under that there's a folder called src or source. We're going to create our Java classes inside the src folder. The second part is the part where we do the coding. And this is called the editor. Of course since we haven't created any Java classes yet, this is empty and we'll be using this section frequently in the coming videos. Actually good good good. So now we can have a look at the menu at the top of the interface. And you can see many windows and many interfaces right from the file tab to the help tab. Terrific. Let's just zip through the settings. So if you click on the IntelliJ Idea text you can see the settings option. Let's go ahead and open the settings. So here you can actually change the theme of the IDE from the appearance section. Oh yeah. You can also search for the feature that you want from the search bar. So let's say for example, the size of the text and the area where we will be coding is quite small. So I'll just increase the font size of the editor so you can see it better. So for that I'll just type font into the search bar. And there you see when you type in font the relevant features are now available to change the necessary features. I'll just select the font option here and then delete the text font from the search bar. And now we've got relevant fields active. I'll set the font size of the editor 16. So if you click okay or apply at the bottom right you will have applied the changes. Good good good. So there you go with the settings section. Let's have a look at another option in this menu. Well it turns out you can learn a lot about the IntelliJ Idea application from this option. You can actually check for updates from here. Let's have a look at the file menu. Whoa. So you can see there's many features going on here. But we're just going to examine the features that we're going to need to use as our base throughout the course. Of course we'll examine other features as needed. But first you can actually create a new project by using the new and new project options from here. By using the open option, you can open up a project that you've created before. You can always access the projects that you've used recently with the recent projects option. You can also close your project by using the Closed project option. Let's have a look at another option under the file menu. the project structure. So in the project structure you can find the name of your project and the SDK it uses. You can also define your project's JDK here or change the JDK version whenever you want. There's one last option under the file menu that I want to show you though the invalidate caches and restart. Now, sometimes our project might not compile properly or while developing a project, we might just find that the IDE doesn't recognize some features or tabs. These can usually be caused by just some remnants in the cache. So whenever that happens, we use the Invalidate and Restart option to clear the cache and restart the IDE. As simple as that. Now that's all I really want to tell you about the file menu. Let's go ahead and look at the edit menu. Okay. Yeah. So you can use this menu for operations like cut, copy and paste just like you would imagine. But since we already do these with keyboard shortcuts, don't really come up here much. So let's have a look at the view menu then. So when you use this tab, you can toggle many views in the interface. For example by using the tool window tab. Here we can open the tools on the edges of the interface directly. For example let's open the run window from here. All right so this is the window where console outputs get displayed. And again from the appearance section here you can choose which tools you want to appear on the edge of the interface. For example if we uncheck the toolbar from here. As you can see the toolbar containing the project name and version control tabs. Whoa. Where'd they go? Okay, so now I'll just check the toolbar option again. And also if you notice, there's a navigation bar in the lower left corner of the interface. So I'm going to move it to the top of the interface. And for this process we're just going to use the appearance option in the view menu. And we also use the appearance option in the view tab to remove or show the status bar whenever you need to check your status about your project. All right. So that's all I'm going to tell you about that. I want to show you a little bit about the code menu next. So in this menu you can find the frequently used operations such as single line comment, multi-line comment and code reformatting and accessing their shortcuts. Now another menu to I'll take you through the build menu. Sometimes after the project is created, some errors can occur and in this case you may need to rebuild your project. So to rebuild the project you can use the rebuild project option. From here and again. From the run menu you can find options such as running the project and debugging. We'll also use some of these other menus when necessary, but we don't need to go through them. But if you notice, there is a play icon and a bug icon here. So the play icon is used to run your project. The bug icon gets used for debugging, but you don't have to think about that yet. So there you go. That's a quick tour through IntelliJ Idea's interface. I've shown you the parts that are most relevant for what we're going to be doing, and we'll take a short break here if you want. But when we come back in the next video, we're going to write our first Java program. So my friends, I'll see you in the next video.

=== 10. First Java Program - Hello World ===
Well hello my friends. Welcome back. So in the previous video we installed IntelliJ Idea. That means we're ready to write our first Java program. Let's go ahead and move on to IntelliJ. Hello world is going to be our first program. And you may remember it's the tradition in the programming world to create a small program that write Hello World as its first phrase to the console. So first up, I want to close this project. In fact, to close a project in IntelliJ, open the file menu and click on the Close Project option. And as you can see, we encountered the screen that popped up when you first started IntelliJ Idea. Did you notice though the first project that we created earlier appears here? So in this area, the projects that we have created before appear so that we can just go ahead and open up any project from here simply by clicking on them. But for now, we're going to create a new Java project. I'll make sure that Java is selected over here on the left. Then let's go ahead and enter a project name in this field. And let's let the project name be my first Java project. You can also change the file location where the project will be saved from this section. I'm not going to change that dome very often. The default setting is the best setting. Not always, but you know, okay, my projects are going to be saved in the IntelliJ projects folder that I created previously, and I will not create a git repository. Build system will be IntelliJ. We will be using Java SE 21 which we have installed on our computer as JDK. Right. I really don't want to have any sample code in my project. Okay. So to create the Java project what do I do? Yeah. Click on the create but there you go. Our new Java project is now created. Now our work can begin. Creation is just a day one, right? So after all this we will create a Java class in this project. We can create our Java class directly under the src folder. Or we can create it in a new package that we will create under the src folder. So just like creating a folder in the computer directory right. Let's go ahead and create a package first. So to do that all I do is right click on that source folder I select New and package right. You see the menu options that open up. So let's name this package hello world. So you can always think of a package as a folder. And the package name starts with a lowercase letter. Now by convention, package names usually start with a lowercase letter and should not contain spaces. So I'll create the package by pressing enter. Now let's create a Java class in the Hello World package to create a Java class. Just right click on the package to show the context menu and choose the menu item. New and Java class. Now here we've got to specify the class name. Let's give the Hello World name for the new class. The class name must also begin with a capital letter. Also, the package name and class name must not contain spaces. Otherwise the editor is just going to throw up a warning. It's not going to be the end of the world. But you understand, right? This is what we call these naming conventions in Java. Now we're going to get into the details a bit later. I'll just hit enter though. And here you see the hello world class with a package in the Project Explorer view. Yeah, so that means we'll now be able to print Hello World to the console using this Java class. But I do want to point out that normally in order to perform an operation in the Java programming language, there must be at least one class and one main method in the class. Now, of course, you may be a little more familiar with concepts such as class and method, but we're going to talk about this in detail in our upcoming lessons. That way you'll know all of the ins and outs, even if you think you already do. There's always some detail or other. Anyway, currently, you only need to specify that there must be at least one Java class and a main method to run a program in Java. So the Java class is ready. Now we have to create that main method right. Now when you run the program, the Java compiler has to know where to start to run the code. Therefore, we will create the main method here. So how is the main method created? Well, let's have a look and examine the main method closely. But we're going to do that as we go on in our next videos. I do want to show you something really nice though. We can create the main method using intelligent code completion feature. Nice little tidbit, huh? So for this I just write main within the scope of the Hello World Java class. Now do you notice the code editor suggests the main method declaration? If you do, select it and press enter from the keyboard, you can quickly create the main method. But you also may have noticed when we created the main method, a green play icon appears to the left side. This just means that this is an executable function. So the main method is the entry point for your application and will subsequently invoke all the other methods required by your particular program. In the Java programming language, every application must contain the main method like this. Now, since we'll be learning the main method in greater detail, we're now going to focus on just printing Hello World to the console. So if we are going to print something to the console, we have to write it between these two curly brackets. So how do you print an expression to the console in this Java programming language? Glad you asked. For this we just use the system dot out dot print method in Java. That's why I write system dot out dot print ln. I put double quotes inside the parentheses and inside the parentheses I write hello world. So you see, this method prints the contents inside the double quotes into the console and inserts a new line after. Also, in Java, it's necessary to add a semicolon at the end of the statement. So now let's run this program. So here's how we actually will run the program in IntelliJ. We select the file that we want to run from the project directory. And right click with the mouse. Select the file named Run Hello World from here. And when you choose this a console screen will open at the bottom of IntelliJ. And we can see the output of the program right on the screen. So if everything is correct you will be seeing Hello World in console. If you see it I see it I think well I see it anyway. So congratulations to you because we've just run our very first Java program. Now before I let you go though, I really would like to underline the following just once more. We are currently learning to print an expression on the console using the Java programming language. What I want you to do is, first of all, just watch the lesson and complete the steps that that you've seen us do here. When you know a little bit more about Java language in general, you'll definitely be able to understand these operations a whole lot better. But go ahead, rewatch. Go ahead. Try it out on your own. But this, my friends, is how you print Hello World onto the console using your new Java programming language. So again, congratulations! This is a big step. When we come back in our next video, we're going to go over this code in some pretty deep detail so you'll understand what's going on. All right so we'll take a short break. And when we come back in the next video we'll continue. See you then.

=== 11. Compiling and Running Applications ===
All right, all right. Hello my friends. Welcome back. So in that previous video, we wrote the first Java program and printed the Hello World expression on the console. Now let's have a look under the hood, so to speak, and understand how our Java Hello World source file was compiled and consequently executed. Firstly, we wrote the Java source code in the Hello world Java file using IntelliJ IDE. A source file contains code written in the Java programming language that you and other programmers can understand. Now, as part of creating an IDE project, a skeleton source file will be automatically generated. You will then modify the source file to add the Hello World message, and then the program has to be compiled into bytecode. The IDE invokes the Java programming language compiler Javac, which takes your source file and translates its text into instructions that the Java Virtual Machine can understand. Instructions contained within this file are known as bytecodes by bytecode. Yeah, we're talking zeros and ones. So in other words, the Java code that we write are converted into zeros and ones by the Java compiler. And as a result, the Java compiler compiles the source code and generates the hello world dot class file. Now this class file can be executed on any platform or operating system by a Java virtual machine. The Java virtual machine translates that bytecode, that is, the dot class file consisting of zeros and ones into native machine code that machines can run. Also. Library code is executed by Java virtual machine and as a result we see the words hello world on the screen. So the stages of compiling and running the code we have written go like this. I mean, I think you understand, but I want to just repeat it quickly. Let's go through it one more time. So the Java classes we create have the Dot Java extension. And when we run our code, the Java compiler converts it into a file with the dot class extension, which consists of bytecodes that the Java virtual machine can understand that is zeros and ones, and the Java virtual machine translates the dot class file consisting of zeros and ones into native machine code that the machines can run. And then we see the output of the program in the console. All right my friends. So when we come back in the next video, we're going to take a closer look at the code that allows us to write Hello World to the console. All right. I'll see you in the next video.

=== 12. Closer Look at the First Java Program ===
All right. Hello and welcome back my friend. So in that previous video we wrote the first Java project. We talked about the running process of a Java program. Now that we've kind of understood how to run a Java program, let's have a closer look at the program that we have written. The Hello World application consists of two primary components the hello world class definition and the main method public class. Hello world. This is the first line of our Java program. Every Java application must have at least one class definition that consists of the class keyword, followed by the class name, and the code for each class appears between the opening and closing curly braces. Now we're going to discuss the class subject in detail tale in, well, some of the upcoming videos, but for now, it's just enough to know that every Java application begins with a class definition. Public static void main string args. Yeah, so this is the next line in the program. The public keyword is the access modifier. The modifiers public and static can be written in either order. Public static or static public. But the convention is to use public static as shown right here. The void keyword indicates that this method does not return any value. The main word is the name of this method. The main method is very similar to the main function in C and C plus plus. It's basically the entry point for your application and will subsequently invoke all the other methods required by your program. String args. Arguments. Write. The main method accepts a single argument. An array of elements of type string. This array is the mechanism through which the runtime system passes information to your application. So for example Java my app Arg1 or Arg2. Now at this stage, I just want to switch to IntelliJ and give you a few examples of arguments. So first I'll print the size of the args array on the console screen. Now of course you might not know what arrays are yet, but for now just don't want to get hung up on the definition. I just want to show you the argument here a little bit more detail. So we'll again use the System.out.println method to print the size of the args array to the console. Now there's actually an easy way to call this method in IntelliJ if you type S out. As you can see, IntelliJ shows us some options. I'll press the enter key on the keyboard while the S out option is selected. So the print method is created automatically. Excellent. All right. So now in the parentheses inside the double quotes I write size of args equal. And I put the plus sign. Now I'll write args dot length. So the args dot length method will give us the size of the args array. Now like I said before, you'll understand all of these a whole lot better in the upcoming videos, but let's now run the code and you can see how it works. So I'll right click on the helloworld.java file and I'll choose run hello world. And now you can see the size of the args array. It's currently zero because no arguments have actually been assigned yet. But guess what. In IntelliJ we can change this. So I click on the run menu from the top menu and open the Edit Configurations option. From the drop down menu in the window that opens in the applications section, I select our application, namely the Hello World application. Then I jump to the Program Arguments section from here and you can assign arguments to the args array from the Program arguments section. So for example I'm writing test arguments. So here the argument elements are separated by a space. So at the moment two elements will be passed into the argument array. Now, if I were to leave a space and write a number, for example five. This time three elements will be passed into the argument array. So the size of the args array will be three. Now let's click the apply button and close this window. Now let's run our application. I right click on the helloworld.java file and I'll choose run hello world. So you can see this time the size of the args array is printed as three. If you want to, we could actually show these elements on the console screen respectively. But I don't want to actually, you know, do too much and conflate definitions for you. So let's just continue to explain the subject that you see here before you. But I'm glad you're starting to put it all together. As a result, in the Java programming language, every application must contain a main method whose signature looks like that. Now we're also going to cover how to define a method in Java. But again those are in upcoming videos. Now finally the line System.out.println. Hello world println method prints the contents inside the double quotes. Onto the console and inserts a new line after it uses the system class from the core library of Java. Don't worry if you don't know where everything is. We're going to learn a whole lot more about classes and methods in the coming videos. Just wanted you to see how the code breaks down. Why don't we take a short break here? I'll see you in the next video.
