=== 1. Thread-safe collections ===
Well hello my friends. Welcome back. So in this video let's explore Threadsafe collections in Java. Yeah Threadsafe collections help us manage data structures safely, all within multithreaded environment. So instead of writing custom synchronization code, Java provides thread safe implementations of commonly used collections like concurrent hash map copy on write array list and concurrent linked queue. Now, of course, thread safe collections are not limited to concurrent hash map copy on write array list and concurrent linked queue. Java.util.concurrent package also includes other thread safe collections designed for different needs. For example, we've got concurrent skip list map, concurrent skip list set, linked blocking queue array, blocking queue, and priority blocking queue. So all of these collections are designed to be thread safe, but their intended use and internal mechanisms are different. So, for example, if you're going to do a lot of reading and just a little writing, it might make sense just to use copy on write array list. In fact, we'll be using copy on write array lists for the example that we'll do coming up shortly. So we'll demonstrate the thread safe collections with an example where multiple threads safely update and access a shared data structure. Also, our example will simulate a system where threads add and retrieve orders from a shared list. So you know what? Why don't we just do it right now? Let's first create a new Java project. Okay. Not the project name. Be concurrent collections. And I'll click on the create button without changing anything else. So in this project I want to create a Java class named Thread Safe Collections example. I will add the main method. In the main method I will create a thread safe collection using the copy on write ArrayList. The type of the list will be string. Its name will be order list. So after the equal sign I write new copy on write ArrayList. Copy on write ArrayList is a thread safe implementation of a list, so each write operation creates a new copy of the underlying array, ensuring no thread conflicts. Now, before we go creating the threads, let's create a method to add orders to this list. Okay, let the name of this method be add order. This method will take two parameters. The first one will be a string list named order list. The second parameter will be the string order. So in this method I will add the order to the order list. And after that I will print the current thread name and order. So each thread adds an order to the shared list. All right, so the copy on write array list ensures thread safety without external synchronization. Good. So this method is ready. Now let's create two threads in the main method. As a parameter to the thread, I will call the add order method using the lambda function. The first parameter of this method will be the order list. The second parameter will be order one. I'll duplicate this line once for the second thread. Now the order will be order two. Okay, let's start the threads. And both threads will be started with a start method and they will execute their tasks in parallel. Lastly, with a join method, I will ensure the main thread waits for threads t1 and t2 to complete before proceeding. And after these I will print the last version of the order list. All right, let's test it out. Well, there you can see thread zero ads. Order one to the list, while thread one ads order two to the list. Now the output might actually vary slightly depending on the thread execution order, but you can see that order one and order two are added to the list. All right, so thread safe collections go like this. A few key points to remember though. The copy on write array list ensures data consistency without requiring explicit locks or synchronized blocks. Okay, while thread safe, this class is optimized for cases with more reads than writes. So each write involves creating a new array and that could get kind of costly. All right, my friends, let's take a short break here. And when we come back in the next video we're going to talk about blocking queues. All right I want to see you then.

=== 2. Blocking queues ===
Well. Hello my friends. Welcome back. Previously we talked about thread safe collections and in this video we're going to talk about blocking queues. Now these are specialized thread safe queues that block threads when they try to add an element to a full queue or retrieve an element from an empty queue. So we're going to be using linked blocking queue to create a producer consumer example. And in this example the producer thread will add numbers to the queue. The consumer thread will retrieve and process numbers from that queue. So what are you doing sitting there? Let's get to it. Now in the concurrent collections package I want to create a new Java class named Blocking Queue example. And I will add the main method. And first I want to create an instance of the blocking queue interface. Its type will be integer, but the name of this instance be queue. All right. Since this is an interface, I want to use a class that implements this interface to create an instance. This class is the linked blocking queue class. And in parentheses I'll specify its capacity. Let's make it three. So this way a linked blocking queue is created with a capacity of three. If the queue is full, the producer will block until space is available. If the queue is empty, the consumer will block until an item is added. So let's go ahead and create the produce and consume methods now. First I'll create the produce method. And this method will take a blocking queue instance as a parameter. And now with a for loop, let's add numbers from 1 to 5 to this queue. In the for loop, I'll put the numbers in the queue using the put method. And if the queue is full, it'll block until space becomes available. Now let's show this number on the console. Also, I'm going to want to allow time for consumption after each production. So here I'll put the threads to sleep for about a half a second. Okay, so let's surround this with a try catch. All right. So the producer method is now ready. And like that we can create a consumer. So this method will also take an instance of the blocking queue interface as a parameter. And again I'll create a for loop to take elements from the queue. And in the loop. I'll take each number with the take method and assign it to a new int variable. If the queue is empty, it will block until an item is added, and I'll print this value to the console. Also, I want to allow time for production after each consumption. Right so here as well. Put threads to sleep for about a half a second and we can surround this with a try catch. Okay, so now the consumer and producer methods are ready. Why don't we go ahead and create two threads in the main method. The first thread will be the producer thread. I will call the producer method and pass the queue object as the parameter. I will duplicate this line for the consumer thread. This method will be consume. And now let's start the threads. Oh, lastly I'll call the join method. Let's run it and see. So the output shows numbers being produced and consumed in order. There you go. That's an example of the blocking queue. Why don't we just summarize the key points and make sure that we remember what we're doing here. We've got blocking behavior. Put and take block. The thread of the queue is full or empty ensuring smooth synchronization. Thread safety the length blocking queue handles thread safe access without external synchronization. Where do you use it? Well, it's very useful in producer consumer patterns where controlled resource sharing between threads is required. Let's keep that in the back of your mind. Let's take a short break here, but I'll see you next time.
