=== 1. Section Overview ===
If you're here and I'm here, it must be next time. So guess what? We're going to do a bit of an overview, because my friends were going to be starting a brand new section. And we will first talk about marker and functional interfaces. Then we're going to move on to the lambda expression. And then we'll talk about the predicate interface. And then lastly we're going to make a console application using that lambda expression and everything else you know. All right so let's get together in the next video and we'll start writing out that lambda expression.

=== 2. Marker and Functional Interfaces ===
All right, my friends. Hello and welcome back. So today we're going to get into the concepts of marker and functional interfaces in Java. So what we'll do is begin with functional interfaces. We'll run through what they all mean. So basically functional interface comprises only a single abstract method. So for instance the runnable interface in the Java.lang package is a prime example of a functional interface. You can see why right here in this marvelous illustration. See it contains only the abstract method run. So functional interfaces can include multiple default and static methods alongside a single abstract method. They're also referred to as a single abstract method interface or Sam interfaces. But that's just due to their defining characteristic. So overall in functional interfaces, the usage of the abstract keyword is optional because yeah, by default, any method defined inside the interface is already considered abstract. So to signify an interface as a functional interface, we annotate it with at functional interface. So it's this annotation that serves as a declaration ensuring that the interface follows the functional interface contract. So functional interfaces were actually introduced way back in Java eight alongside lambda expressions and method references. Enhancing code readability, cleanliness and simplicity. All right. So that's pretty much enough about the functional interface. Let's talk about the marker interface. So when an interface doesn't actually contain any methods or fields it actually falls under the category of a marker interface. So Java provides some predefined marker interfaces such as Cloneable in the Java.lang package, serializable in the Java.io package and remote in the Java RMI My package. So these interfaces, like serializable, serve as markers rather than providing methods or properties. You take so let's say for instance, serializable facilitates the process of serialization, making objects ready to be saved in files. So without implementing serializable a class cannot undergo serialization. Hence, marker interfaces play a significant role in Java programming. All right. So there's all your information about marker and functional interfaces I think that's enough. What you do need to keep in mind though, is that if an interface contains a single abstract method, it's a functional interface. And if an interface is completely empty, that is, it doesn't contain any methods or fields. It's a marker interface. All right. See, that wasn't so bad. Let's take another short break here. And next time when we come back, we will get into this implementation of the lambda expression. But we'll ease into it. All right, I'll see you next video.

=== 3. Lambda Expression ===
All right, all right, check it out, my friends. Hello and welcome back. So here we are in this video and we're going to introduce you to this marvelous lambda expression in Java. Why don't we get started first to explain a little bit. Write lambda expressions represent a significant addition to Java. And it was introduced in Java eight. So they actually offer a concise and straightforward way to depict single method interfaces using expressions. Now recall our discussion on anonymous classes in the object oriented programming segment. I know you do, but to review anonymous classes, while very useful, can become cumbersome quite quickly, especially for simple implementations like interfaces with just one method. So this complexity arises when you aim to pass functionality as an argument to another method, such as defining actions for button clicks. Right. So lambda expressions address this issue by treating functionality as method arguments or code as data. Yeah. So remember the anonymous classes demonstrate really well how to implement a class without providing it with a name. Now, while this approach is often more concise than named classes, it can still feel excessive for classes with only one method. So lambda expressions offer a more compact way to express instances of single method classes. Moreover, lambda expressions facilitate the implementation of functional interfaces. That's why we're here. So remember if you will, that interfaces with only one abstract method are termed functional interfaces. So Java furnishes an annotation functional interface which signifies an interface as such allowing for a very clear declaration. All right. So why don't we look at the components of a lambda expression before we go any further? A lambda expression in Java consists of three components. The first one is the argument list can be empty or it can be non-empty. The second one is the arrow token, and this is used to link the arguments list and the body of the expression. So the last one is of course the body. So this contains expressions and statements for lambda expressions. All right. So that's all the theory. And that's all well and good. It's definitely enough. Let's figure out how to use lambda expressions by practicing them. And yeah they'll become second nature. So we'll create a new project. And we'll just name the project Lambda expression. Don't change any of the other options and click the create button. And I'll create a new package and interface in this project. And we'll name the package Lambda Expression. And the name of the interface will be animals. So now I got to create a new method with two parameters void show. String. Animal. Int speed. So you can create this method with or without parameters. There's not going to be a problem. Now. Also, since this interface contains only one method, I will annotate this interface as a functional interface. Now just above the interface. After the at sign, I'll write functional interface. Now it's not actually mandatory, like I was telling you before, but you can define it like that. No penalty. And now it's time to create the test class in the Lambda expression package. The class name will be main test. Now, to perhaps better understand the lambda expression, I want to first access the show method we defined in the animals interface using the anonymous class. And then I'll do this using the lambda expression. So you'll be able to see clearly the difference. So I want to call the animals interface. Animals animal equals new animals. And as you can see, we get a compilation error it says cannot instantiate the type animals. Now we expected that right. And it's normal because well, we cannot instantiate the interfaces and abstract classes. So now I'll need to put curly braces after animals. And I'll click the Add Unimplemented methods option to override the show method. Next and perhaps last. For this, we'll need to put in a semicolon at the end of the block. Great. So now we can write some code in the show method, and I'll print the message to the console using the animal and speed parameters s out. Double quote A plus animal plus double quotes can reach speeds of. Plus speed plus double quotes. Kilometers per hour. Okay, now to execute these codes we'll need to call the show method using the animal object. So here I'll write animal dot show as the first parameter. I can write cheetah. For the second parameter I'll write 90. All right. Let's run it and see what happens. Yeah. So you can see a cheetah can reach speeds of 90km/h. So this is the message that's printed on the console. And you're probably going, well wait, haven't we done this already? I don't worry, I know you know this just a little bit of a review, but you learned this in the anonymous class video. So now let's try to print this message to the console using the lambda expression. So I'll convert these lines to the comment line. I will call the animals interface again. Animals animal equal. After the equal sign this time I will put the pair of parentheses and after the parentheses I'll put the lambda symbol. Now you can create it just by pressing the minus key on the keyboard, by the way, and then pressing the greater than key. Okay. So after the lambda symbol this time I'll put curly braces. And lastly the semicolon at the end of the block. So we get this error. Why is that? Because the show method we created in the interface has two parameters. So I'm going to write two parameters in the parentheses to represent the parameters of the show method. So the first parameter will be animal. Second parameter will be speed. You can write any name here. There's really no problem right. So for example a for the animal and S for the speed even. Okay. So now the parameter A represents a parameter animal of the show method. And the parameter s represents the parameter speed of the show method. So now in the scope of the lambda expression I will print a message to the console using the parameters a and s. So I'll need to copy the print method that I wrote for the anonymous class example, and I'll paste it into the scope of the lambda expression. The parameters will be a and s, and now let's call the show method using the animal object animal dot show. For the parameter I write cheetah and 90 again. Now let's run it. Test the code. Whoa! There you see the same message on the console. So far, so good. And that means that. Yeah, you've actually completed the simplest form of the lambda expression in Java. The lambda expression is now frequently encountered because, well, it increases code reliability as well as supports principles of writing clean code, which I know you're dedicated to. All right. So obviously it's very important that you know how the lambda expression gets used like this. So we will take a short break. Feel free to go through those examples again if you'd like. But next time when we come back we're going to be learning the predicate interface. And that's where we use lambda expressions as well. So you might just want to jump to the next video. That's where I'll be. See you there.

=== 4. Predicate ===
All right, all right. Hello my friends. So in that previous video we learned about the lambda expression. So that means in this video we're going to talk about the predicate interface, which is a well-known interface used with the lambda expression. Now that you're comfortable we'll move on the predicate interface. It's an interface that helps in unit testing our codes individually. So it's defined by the Java.util dot function package. There is one public abstract method in the predicate interface. And for this reason it's annotated as a functional interface. So the predicate interface is a functional interface. Now although it contains different default methods it only has one abstract method the test method. So the test method returns a Boolean value okay. Test can actually take any object type as a parameter. It returns true if the condition passed to it is meant and false if it's not. So why don't we just see how we can use the predicate interface with an example? So first we're going to have to create an instance of the predicate class. Now in the example here that you're looking at the type of predicate is integer. But it could be any type of object. All right. So then we create an if condition using the lambda symbol. If the value assigned to the parameter t is less than ten it returns true. Otherwise false. Then using the predicate reference, we call the test method defined in the predicate class and give the parameter that we want to compare. All right. So in this example I've just passed 20 to the test method. So in this case the output will be false because 20 is greater than ten. Okay. So there's the theory. Why don't we get to some practice. I'll need to create a new class in the Lambda Expression package. And the class name will be predicate interface example. So now let's just get into the working logic of the predicate interface, just with a few examples. So first I want to create an instance of the predicate interface. So I'll write predicate. So you can see right it's defined in the Java.util dot function package. And I'll choose this option and press enter. Now before specifying the type of the predicate, why don't we have a look at the predicate interface. So I'll just press the Ctrl key on the keyboard and click on the predicate. So you can see here right it's annotated with the functional interface statement. If we were to examine the interface, we can see the test method. Now, did you notice this method returns a boolean? So in other words, it allows us to understand whether or not the result of the test is true or false. Now additionally, different methods are defined in this interface, such as and negate and or. However, since it contains only one abstract method, which is a test method, it is annotated as a functional interface. All right. Just wanted to make sure you could see that detail. So I want to specify the type of the predicate as a string. And we'll just name the reference p0 after the equal sign. Let's write the lambda expression. So we're going to name the control variable s. So after typing the s I'll put the lambda symbol. So now I want to write rate the condition in parentheses. The condition will be s dot equals double quotes. Java. Now, since we specify the type of the predicate as a string, the type of the s parameter is going to be a string. So we can use the equals method of the string class. Now I want to call the test method of the predicate interface p0 dot test. And of course I'll give Java as the parameter. Since the test method returns a boolean, we can assign the result to a variable. So the beginning of this code I can write boolean result zero equals. And now I want to print the result on the console. S out double quotes. Result zero equals plus. Result zero. You follow. You see, since both strings we are comparing R Java, the result is going to be true. All right so let's run it and make sure. And there you see the result is true. So let's change the string. In the test method I'll write Java in lowercase. Let's test it out. So this time the result is false because Java's case sensitive. Did we just say that altogether. Good job. Now let's just make another example quickly. So I want to copy and paste these codes. I want to specify the type of the predicate as integer this time. And this time yeah. We'll make the name of the reference be P1, the name of the control variable. That'll be I, since the type of the predicate is an integer, well, the type of the I variable is going to be integer again. Right. So the condition will be I less than ten. Also, I want to change this to result one. All right. Now I want to change the test method of the predicate interface. Let the test parameter be five and I'll change the result zero to result one in the print method. And okay, since five is going to be less than ten the result will be true. So let's just run it and make sure. And there you go. The result is true. Obviously the very simplest usage of the predicate interface. But let me show you something else. We can chain the two predicates to each other with the and or or methods of the predicate interface. So why don't we create another predicate instance predicate integer p2 equals M Lambda symbol. M greater than five. Now let's chain p1 and p2 with the and method. We'll let the test argument be seven. Also, I will assign the result to a variable. Since of course seven is greater than five and less than ten. The result is going to be true. Let's just print that out. So I'll copy this print method paste it here. These will be result two. Let's run it and make sure. And there you can see the result is true. So why don't we now use the Or method. So I want to copy and paste this line. Convert the previous line to a comment line. I'll change the method and to or. And since the result of the first condition is true, the result will be true again. Let's rerun it. And you can see there's your result. True again. So there you go. That's the predicate interface and how it works. So now why don't we also see how we can use the predicate interface with lists. So I'll convert these lines to the comment line. And now I'll create an array list. Array list. String animals equals new array list. Let's add some elements to the list. Animals. Add dog. I'll copy and paste this line four times. The second element will be cat. The third element. Cow. Fourth element ant. Last element. Lion. All right. I'm not lying. First, I want to print the elements of this list on the console. S out double quotes. Animals equals plus animals. Now I'll remove the ant from the list using the predicate interface. So I'll write animals dot remove. if and you notice a parameter of the remove if method is the predicate interface that worked so well. So that means we can create a lambda expression in parentheses of the remove if method animal lambda symbol. And in the parentheses I'll write the condition animal dot equals ant. So if there's an element named ant it will be deleted from the list. Otherwise the list will stay the same. So thanks to that predicate interface we can do this operation really easily. All right. Let's just print the last version of the animals list. I'll copy the print method and paste it after the removing operation. And I'll change this statement to last version of animals. So let's run it and see what happens. Well, there you see, the element ant has been removed from the list. So you can use a predicate class like that as well. You know what? Let's just make a simple console application using the predicate class, and then we'll wrap it up before we go. So the console application that we're going to create will receive a number from the user and just say whether the number is odd or even. So it's a simple console application, but we're going to do it using the predicate interface. All right. So let's just convert all of this to the comment line. And I'll create a method. Public static. The return type of this method will be boolean. The name of this method will be is even. The method will take two parameters. The first parameter will be the parameter that represents the number we will receive from the user. So for the first parameter, I'll write. Int number. The second parameter will be a predicate. So I write predicate. The type will be an integer. The name of the reference will be p. All right. In the method body I will return the result of the test method. So I'll write return p dot test number. So if the result of the test method is true this method will return true else false. You follow so the method is ready. Why don't we jump into the main method? First I'll import the scanner class to take input from the user scanner. Scanner equals new scanner system dot in. And I'll give a message to the user. S out double quotes. Please enter a number. Now I want to take the number and assign it to a variable. Int entered number equals scanner dot next int. Now I'll create an if else statement. As a condition. I'll call the is even method. So this method is going to take two parameters. The first one is the entered number. The second is the predicate. So I'll create this predicate with lambda n lambda symbol n modulus two is equal to zero. Now, if you want, you can assign this predicate to a variable and call the variable here. It's up to you. Or you can transfer the boolean value returned by this method to a variable and call that variable in the if condition. Yeah I mean it's developer's choice. Okay. Whichever is easier. But as a result, if the remainder of the number we entered when divided by two is zero, the result is going to be true. So that means the number will be even. Otherwise it will be false. That is, the number will be odd. Now let's give that message to the user. S out entered number plus double quotes is an even number. So I'll copy this print method. Paste it into the else block. This will be odd. And lastly, I'll close the scanner. So let's run it and test it out. I'll enter five. So the condition was not met. And the five is an odd number. Message gets printed to the console. What do you say we run it again? This time I'll enter six. And. Yeah, the condition is met and the message six is an even number gets printed to the console. So there you go. That's the predicate interface and how you can use it to wrap it all up. The predicate is a functional interface, and it has an abstract method called test that returns a boolean. So it's thanks to this test method we can actually perform simple filtering and condition statements. You can use it a lot. So we'll take a short break here and we'll come back in the next video.

=== 5. Method Reference ===
All right, all right. Well, what do you know, my friends, here we are back again. Thanks for coming back. So you've already learned what a lambda is. What it does. Now we're going to talk about another concept related to lambda expressions method reference. So method reference is a feature that came with Java eight. Now it's used with lambda expressions that bring functional programming paradigms to Java. Method reference actually allows us to use a method directly with a lambda expression, and then makes the code more readable. Sounds good so far, right? So method reference allows us to use the existing definition of a method directly. It's an alternative to lambda expressions and can perform the same function. All right so a method reference represents the method call and shows how a functional interface will use a method. So long before. Way back before Java eight, we actually used anonymous classes or lambda expressions when working with functional interfaces. So thanks to the lambda expressions, we achieved a simpler and more readable code. However, in some cases even the lambda expressions can create unnecessary repetition and complexity. This is where method reference comes into play. So it's a simple representation of lambdas. So let's have a look at an example. And I think it'll explain it better than a whole lot of words. So let's say for example we'll assume we have a list of names. And to print the elements of this list to the console with foreach, we could use a lambda expression like the one that you see now. Here the name parameter represents each element in the list, while the lambda symbol indicates which operations can be performed, which is the process of printing the elements of the list. And of course, we're talking about the name parameter to the console. Good. So everything's fine up to this point, right? But there is a situation like this. The operation performed here simply calls the print method. Now, in these such cases, we can use a method reference which can simplify the lambda expression even more. So here's the same operation done with a method reference births. So let's talk about the syntax here. First we specify where the method that we will use belongs. So in other words the print method it's under the system dot out. Then we use two colons. Then we write the name of the method we're using. So yeah this is the basic use of the method reference. And as a result we can say that method references are kind of like a way to make the lambda expressions simpler. Now let's have a look at how many different ways that we can actually use these method references. So we can create a reference to static methods in a class with a method reference. Yeah. Let's have a look at this example. The static Parseint method in the integer class is accessed with a method reference, and the result is transferred to a function. The function is a functional interface that takes an input and returns a result. So here the string type represents the input and the integer type represents the output. And then we use the apply method of this interface to pass an input to get the result of this method reference. So the form of this created with a lambda expression goes like this. So in other words, the string given as input is converted to integer with a parse int method of the integer class. Births. All right. You still with me? So let's look at another way to use method references. So a method reference can also be called from an instance of a class. So let's say for example we have a string named str. And let's pass the value hello to it in lowercase letters. Now we can reference the two uppercase method of the string class via this str object. Now also you notice the result is passed to a supplier. Supplier is also a functional interface. It only produces a result without taking any input. Okay so for example there's already a string object with a value here. And an output will be created as a result of the method applied to it. Now it is possible to get this output with a get method in the supplier interface. So now let's look at the lambda equivalent of this expression. Now do you notice our object is certain. And the two uppercase method is applied to this object with a lambda expression. And the result is kept in the supplier object. Okay. So it's actually enough to use the get method in the supplier interface to access the result. Births. Now yet another way to use it is to reference non-static methods via the class. So let's have a look at this example. So the non-static two uppercase method in the string class is accessed with a method reference. And the result is transferred to a function. The form of this created with a lambda expression is this. Now, the last way to use the method reference is to reference a constructor of a class. So let's have a look at this example. We can call the constructor of the ArrayList class with the new keyword. It's also possible to pass the result to a supplier. Now the way to create this with Lambda is as follows. All right my friends, what do you think? Now we better talk about the points to consider when you're defining a method reference. When you're using a method reference, the signature of the reference method must match the method signature of the functional interface. So in other words, the parameter types and numbers must be the same. So let's say for example if you're going to use the supplier functional interface. The output of the method you use as a reference must be the same type as the type of result to be produced. Now method reference works with a functional interface. Therefore, the interface to be used must have a single abstract method. And you remember what that means, right? A functional interface means an interface with only one abstract method. Cool. Moving on. Method reference can be used instead of lambda expressions used for simple and direct method calls. So let's say if you need a complex job done. For example, if there's a process that involves multiple steps, lambda expression should be preferred instead of method reference. Okay, that's enough explaining. Let's do a little practice. So yeah here we're going to create a new class. And let's name the class method reference example. Let's add the main method. So now we'll create a list. And let's let the type of this list be string. And let the name of the list be animals. So we can create the elements of this list with the arrays dot as list method. Or we can quickly create our list with a static of method of the list interface. Now of course, a list you create with the of method will be immutable, meaning that you can't make any changes to the list later after you create it. But since we're really not going to be doing much, we can just go ahead and use the up method. Let's add four elements to the list. So now that our list is ready, let's just try to print all the elements to the console with the foreach method of the iterator interface. So the for each method takes a consumer parameter. The consumer is also a functional interface and it contains a method called accept. So the operation performed by this interface accepts a single input argument and does not return a result. Therefore, it's possible to create a lambda expression here. So first let's create a parameter representing each element. For example animal. Then after the lambda expression, let's define the operation to be performed on each element. And of course we want to print each element to the console. Therefore I will call the print method. Now if we want to, we can transfer this lambda expression to a consumer object and call that object here. So I want to let's do it right now. Now we've got to specify the type of consumer. This specifies a type of the input to be processed. And here you can specify the list itself as a type. Or since we'll process each element of the list you could also specify it just as string. Now if you specify this type as a list, you'll need to use the accept method of the consumer interface. And if you specify this type as string, you can process this object directly without having to use the accept method. So now after the equals sign we can write the lambda expression here. And now let's write this object in parentheses. Yeah. So here you can see there's really no difference. You can actually use the lambda directly or pass it to the consumer object and use it like that. Choice is up to you my friends. Cool. So let's have a look and run our code. See what happens. All right. So you see the elements of the list are printed to the console. But now what do you say we try to create the lambda expression with a method reference? You thought we forgot about that, huh? But you notice something here. What we're doing is just printing the elements to the console. That is, we're simply calling the print method. So therefore, we can use a print method with the method reference method here. Okay. Since the method that we'll use is the print method I'll just delete all the expressions other than that. So now I just have to write where this method belongs. Of course. System dot out. And how about we define the method reference with a double colon. And that's it. So just run the code again and check it out. The results are the same. So we could basically say the following. If the lambda expression simply calls a method, we can use a method reference instead. If the method expression performs slightly more complex operations, then using a method reference is not going to be the right approach. For example, let's just try to print animals that start with the letter C to the console. So now the lambda expression will have worked for an if condition. And here we can use the Startswith method of the string class. If the animal's name starts with C, let's print it to the console. All right. Test it out. So yeah, you can see we printed animals that start with the letter C to the console. But did you notice something. We're not just talking about the print method. Each element is subjected to a condition beforehand. Then those that meet this condition are printed to the console. Therefore, it wouldn't be able to use the print method with the method reference here. But if we still wanted to use it in this case, we would need to create a method that performs the operation here, and then use this method as a reference, which is now beyond the purpose of this particular video. But you get the point. Now you know how to use a method reference and when Let's have a look though, at a few different scenarios where we can use this method reference with a few simple examples. So let's first try to use the method reference for a static method call in a class. For example, let's try to use the parse int method in the integer class. So the parse int method. This gets used to convert numerical expressions written in string format to integer. So let's say for example Integer.parseint. Double quotes 123. So this code converts the input 123. Given as a string to integer. Therefore, we give an input and get an output. When we create a lambda expression for such operations, we can transfer it to the function interface object. So in other words, let's convert this expression to a lambda expression first. Now let's transfer it to a function object. The function interface is a functional interface and contains an apply method that controls the input and output. So when creating this class, we also need to specify the type of input and output. So for this example the input will be string and the output will be integer. Now let's call the apply method of this interface. And let's define the parameter we want to convert to integer as input. And since this will give us an integer, we'll transfer the result to an integer. Now print the result to the console. All right, so everything looks good, right? But do you notice the lambda we use here only does one thing calling the Parseint method. So instead we can simply use a method reference. So now let's look at another scenario. See it's also possible to call the method reference from an object. So let's say for example we have a string object with a value. Hello. And now let's try to convert all the letters of this object to uppercase. But let's do this using a lambda expression. So there will be no input here right. We will apply the two uppercase method to the existing object. Therefore the lambda parameter parenthesis will be empty. So after the lambda expression, let's call the two uppercase method using the object. And of course this returns to us a supplier. So in other words there's no input but there is a product. Therefore we'll transfer this to a supplier object. And supplier is a functional interface that produces a result without receiving any input. That is it provides something. Okay. So this interface is usually used for generating a value. So when we're defining it we do need to specify the type of output. So for this example the output will again be a string. Now let's try to obtain the output. So we can obtain this with the get method of the supplier interface. Therefore let's just grab it and print it to the console. And there you see, it's pretty clear. However, it's possible to use a method reference instead of lambda here, because lambda again does only one operation applying the uppercase method to a string. Therefore, it's possible to convert this to a method reference. All right. So that's it. Now let's use the method reference to call the constructor of a class. So let's say for example let's just create an array list here. Now you already know how to create an object with a new keyword. So this part's actually the constructor of the array list class. Now let's create it with Lambda and pass it to a supplier again. And since the constructor method is the only thing that's going to be called the lambda parameter, parenthesis will be empty again. And this expression will call the constructor method of the ArrayList class using the new keyword. Now we can use a supplier get method here. Right. So everything's normal for now. But since the lambda expression here is just going to call the constructor method, the method reference can be used instead. There you go. So now you can see with the method reference we can simplify lambda expressions that call a single method. All right. Let's do one more thing and then we'll wrap it up. So you remember in the video where we learned the lambda expression, we created an animal's interface. And this interface was actually a functional interface because this interface only contained the show method. Therefore it's actually possible to create a reference method for this method. So you notice we simplified the codes quite a bit using the lambda expression instead of the anonymous class in the main method. Now, yeah, since there is only one expression in the scope, it's also possible to delete the scope parenthesis here. So in other words, lambda expression can be used instead of lambda statement. So now when we have a look at this expression there are parameters here. Then the lambda symbol is used and then a print method. However we've got more than one expression in the print method. So therefore right we cannot use a direct method reference. So let's first define this print method in a separate method. So now let's access this method after the lambda symbol and pass the necessary parameters. Yeah we can actually do it like this. But do you notice the IDE is darkened. This part of a little bit. Yeah. So when we position a mouse over it, just hover. See how it actually tells us that this can be written as a method reference? Ooh that's helpful. So let's convert this to a method reference. And there you see it using a method reference instead of a lambda. So what does it actually mean though? Well there's a functional interface called animals. And this interface has one method. So we have a method called display that corresponds to this method. And this method is in the main test class. You got to notice here too that the show method in the animals class and the display method have a similar signature that is the same return type and the same parameters. So that means. Therefore we can use the display method with a method reference. So why don't we just take a moment here and summarize what the advantages of using method reference Our method reference provides brevity and simplicity. So in other words, instead of explicitly defining the parameter, it shortens the writing by directly specifying which method will be called. It offers less of a chance of making any errors. While there's a risk of making errors due to wrong parameter names or unnecessary operations. In Lambda, the method reference eliminates this possibility. Hopefully you see that, but it also increases readability therefore. So method reference shows more clearly what's going to be done. For example, the statement system dot out double colon print clearly indicates that the print method is called on each element. All right, my friends, that's all we're going to do with this method reference stuff. But it will come into play shortly. You'll see. All right. So why don't we take a break here and see you in the next video?

=== 6. Switch Expression (Enhanced Switch Statement) ===
All right, all right. Hello my friends. Welcome back. So in this video we're going to talk about the enhanced switch statement. Now we've talked about it a little bit but now let's get into it. So we learned about switch statements in the Control Flow statement section. I'm sure you remember it was more logical to use switch statements instead of working with multiple else if structures. However the traditional switch structure had its limitations. New features, though, were added to eliminate these limitations, starting with Java 12, and then these features were continually developed and made stable finally, by Java 14. Now, in addition, we've got some more improvements that were made to switch statements with Java 21. So in this video we're going to talk about the improvements in switch statements and see how they're going to benefit you. Let's get to it. All right. Why don't we just have a look at a traditional switch statement. So here we've got a switch statement. Most basic form with a switch statement here. Day is checked. And the code in that case is run if it matches the case since day is three. In this example case three is executed in Wednesday is transferred to the day name variable. Then the switch statement is terminated with the break keyword and Wednesday is printed to the console. Now of course you already know this part, but what are the limitations here, you might ask? Well, you got to notice the break keyword is used to terminate the switch in each case. So if we don't use it well we're exposed to a situation called fall through. You ever heard of falling through the cracks? Well, in other words, the case is after the case that meets the condition. Continue to work until a break keyword is encountered. Now, if no break gets used, the case that meets the condition and all the cases after it are going to work. Kind of undesirable, wouldn't you say? Now perhaps another limitation was it switch statements only worked as a control mechanism. Yeah. So in other words, they did not work as an expression. So you notice right. We pass a value to the day name variable in each case. So in other words doing this operation in all cases causes a lot of code repetition. So this has got to be prevented. In order to correct this and similar situations an improvement was made in the classic switch statements. So now let's have a look at these improvements. Starting with Java 12, the switch statement started to be used as a structure that returns a value, and this was supported by the yield keyword, and at the same time switch statements were simplified with a Lambda style syntax, and that structure was made stable in Java 14. So let's just have a look at the example that we did before made with the enhanced switch statement. That is the switch expression. Now here if you notice that day name variable gets used before the switch keyword. So in other words switch now returns a value and the return value is transferred to the variable named day name. So this way there's no need to do the same operation in each case. Secondly, instead of the colon we used in cases, we now can use the lambda arrow. And in this case there's no need for the break keyword anymore either. So you see now right. Only the case that meets the condition as a result of the matching is executed, and then the switch statement ends. And what does that do? Yeah. We prevent the fall through situation. And then as a result, the way we use this makes the code more readable and eliminates unnecessary break statements. Also, I wonder if you noticed, since this is now a switch expression, we need to put a semicolon at the end of the scope of the switch. Otherwise we're going to get a compilation error. Now additionally, a new keyword entered our lives with a new switch. Statements yield. Yeah, you heard me mention that before, right? Yield is a new keyword that allows switch to return a value. It's advantageous to use yield, especially when performing more complex operations. So let's just consider that previous example. Have a look at the case three. So let's say that we want to perform more operations in our case blocks for this particular example. Case three this is where yield is going to come into play. So in other words we can specify a scope with curly brackets in a case and perform more than one operation within this scope. And we can return the result with a yield keyword works well. Also we've got a new feature called pattern matching. This was added to switch statements with Java 21. And it's thanks to this feature, we can make the checks we make with the instance of operator shorter and more effective. Now you remember we we learned that instance of operator in polymorphism. This operator allowed us to learn the type of an object. Now let's have a look at an example where we can use this. So an object from the object class is created and a value is assigned to it. Now it's possible to use the instance of operator like you see here. In that way, you'll be able to learn which data type this value belongs to. Now let's see how this is handled with the new switch structure. So here you can see this check is done with much less code. And it's done effectively with switch. And you got to note that the instance of operator is not used at all. And that's just because the type of the value assigned to the object can be easily checked with the switch. So switch now does the job of the instance of operator, which makes our job much easier in determining which object to which class and inheritance issues. So I do want to mention just another feature and we'll make it the last one. Do you remember we could also use enums in switch statements. In addition to that, the enhanced switch structure automatically detects whether all constants in the enum class are checked or not. And if you do not check all constants, that's when it throws a compilation error. So therefore, when you want to check enums with switch. Well, you should make sure that you have checked all constants. Now if you forget even just one constant, well switch is going to warn you with a compilation error. All right, that's enough of the theory. Let's get into some practice. So I just want to close this project and open up the exercise project that we created at the beginning of the course. Okay, so in the decision making package I'll create a new Java class and we'll name it Switch Expressions. Also add the main method. Okay now let's create an int variable with the value three. And a string variable named message. Its initial value will be empty. So now I want to check this value with the switch statement. So if the day value is from 1 to 5, I will assign work day as a text to the message variable. So that means I can create the Their cases. And lastly, I'll put in the break keyword. So the day value is 6 or 7. I will assign the text weekend. To the message variable. And for the default I'll assign invalid day. Now I want to print the message to the console. Why don't we run it and see what we get. All right so the day is three and the messages. Workday. Change data seven and run it. Now you can see the message is weekend. I'm going to change it to ten and rerun. Okay. So now you see that the message says invalid day. So that means it's working. This is the normal switch statement that you might be actually familiar with. So now we've got a couple of main situations. The first is the usage of the break keyword. So let's delete the break keywords. And let's change the day value to three. And let's run that. And look at that. You see all the cases get executed. So that means we have to use the break keyword to get the correct result. All right. So that's the first situation. The second one that I want to run by you is the usage of the message variable. So if you notice we used it in every case. So we need to be able to simplify it. And for that particular solution we can use the enhanced switch. So I want to first delete the break keywords. Next I want to change these colons to the lambda arrow. And I'll write this in one line. And of course I'll need to assign the result to the message variable. Now, since we've got a switch expression, we have to put a semicolon at the end. And there you see way simpler. Let's test it out. And we get that excellent result. That's what we're talking about. So there's no need to use that keyword break anymore right. It executes the correct case and terminates the switch. All right. So now that we have the structure of the enhanced switch under our belts, let's now use the yield keyword. So we're going to use it to return a value after some codes in each case. So for example let's print just a little bit of text before this. And also we're going to have some logic codes. No problem there. So in this case you're going to want to return this statement. And to do this we'll use the keyword yield. And now what we'll do is we've got to use these in a block. So in this case if this case condition is met the codes here will be executed. And this statement will be returned at the end. So let's test it out one more time. And there you see the print method here executed. And then the yield keyword. And then the work day message get returned. All right. So that's how you use the yield keyword. Of course you do need to pay attention to a few points. When we're working with switch expressions for example you cannot use both colon and lambda arrow in a switch that's going to cause a compilation error. Now it's also possible to use the keyword yield with a colon. So in other words, if there's only one statement in the case and you want to return it and do this with a colon, you can use the yield keyword as well. All right. Let's now have a look at the pattern matching feature. So with Java 21 we can perform the checks made by the instance of operator in switch statements in a bit of a more concise way. Let's let's just quickly hash out an example of this. We'll create an object from the object class and pass a value to it. Now, if you remember, the object class was the top class in the class hierarchy in Java. Therefore, even though we pass an integer value here, this is actually an object. So let's try to learn which data type the value of this object actually belongs to. And first we can use the classic Instanceof operator. Let's see how far we get. And we'll use the if else structure for this. So if our object is an instance of integer, let's pass the object to a string with a bit of an explanation text. So let's define the string object outside of if else. Else. If our object is an instance of the string class. Let's pass the object to a variable with this explanation. And you can multiply the conditional expression here. For example, if there are five subclasses belonging to a superclass, you can check for these five subclasses. But for now these two conditions are going to do it for us. So finally let's create the else block. And here let's pass the unknown type message to the variable. And let's go ahead and print the result to the console. So let's test it. And you can see we've got the value of the object. And it actually belongs to an integer data type. So if we convert it to a string. This time we get that this object is an instance of the string class. Well let's try a different data type then. All right. So this time the else block worked. All right. So everything's fine. But then it seemed like we're writing a little too much code. And that's because we're using the instanceof operator in every condition. So now let's try this out with this switch expression. So we can pass the result directly to the variable. Let's check see if it is integer in the first case. So here we need to add an object name after the class name. Otherwise we'll get an error. So we can actually ignore this when using the Instanceof operator. You can go ahead and use it if you want. But we absolutely have to use it in the switch statement. And we can write our message after the lambda error. Let's do the same thing for string. And finally, the default case. Good. Let's test it. There. You see, we're now able to learn what type the object is with switch. So this is called pattern matching. It's a great feature. And with Java 21 it's possible to use a switch structure like this instead of the Instanceof operator. All right. So why don't we go ahead and well, before we wrap this up we're going to have a look at the use of the enum in switch. So if at least one of the enum constants is not controlled with switch this will cause a compilation error. So now let's try to understand this with an example. So we'll first create an enum class. Let this class contain days. Now let's create an enum object into which we can pass the day value. Now let's check this with switch. All right. So in the first case let's consider the weekdays. If it overlaps with one of them let's return the message workday. In the second case let's consider the weekend days. So in this case let's return the weekend message. All right. So everything looks normal. Now I'm going to delete a day from the first case. And there you see there's a compilation error. And it says switch expression does not cover all possible input values. But if we were to add the default case, this error will disappear. Yeah. Let's add it. So the message will be invalid day. And here you see the error is gone because there's a default case. All right. So we've got that now. All right I do want to show you just one more. You can call this a pro tip. Let's go back to the first example we did. So I want to change the colons. And we'll change that to a lambda arrow. Now, do you notice we're not using any break keywords here? Because this statement automatically ends the switch statement as if a break was used. You get it. So what do you think? Can we still use break? Hmm. Eh, let's try it out. As you can see, no, it's not allowed. It actually wants us to put it in a scope. Well, let's do it like that. So also, I'll import the messages into the print method and delete the variable which we assigned the message into it. Now let's use a break keyword. We'll check it out. There's no compilation now, but it is telling us that this is unnecessary and that's okay. All right, now, what do you suppose happens if we put in the keyword yield in the scope? Well let's take a look. So I want to add the keyword yield and assign the result to the message variable. And now we can use the break keyword before the yield. And there you see break is not allowed before the yield keyword. So let's just try use it after yield. Well look at that. That's not allowed either. I'm showing you right. Because as a result you can actually say that there is no scope. So it does not allow you to use the break keyword if there is a scope. Well, this time it would be checked whether there's the keyword yield or not. If there's no break, it's possible to use break. If there is, it is not possible. All right. So that, my friends, is the new switch statement. We're going to take a short break here, but I'll see you in the next video.

=== 7. Simple Calculator app with Lambda ===
What? You came back. Welcome, welcome. Thanks for being here. So, my friends, we we've talked about this lambda expression previously. You know, the purpose of the lambda expression. We use it in Java. You know how to use it, but maybe you're not really that comfortable with it. So that's why in this video, what we'll do is develop a console application using the lambda expression. And this way you'll really get used to using the lambda expression through working on an application. So why don't we just get started and have lots of fun walking through this together? Okay, now let's just talk about the application that we're going to develop before we get started. That way you'll at least see where we're going. So the application that we're going to make is a calculator application. And we're going to ask the user for two numbers and then print the sum difference, multiplication and division of these numbers to the console. So it's actually a pretty straightforward, simple application. You could actually easily develop this application with the information that you've learned so far. But we're going to do this application using the lambda expression. So that means I'm going to highly recommend that you follow this application carefully step by step as we do it okay. So let's get to it. First up I need to create a new package within the Lambda Expressions project. And we'll let the name of this package be calculator with Lambda. Now I'll create an interface in this package. The name of this interface will be operation. So in this interface I need to create a void method Named perform operation. Also, this method will take two double parameters, double x and double y. So since this method is an abstract method by default, it's not going to contain a body, right? Also, we can annotate this interface as a functional interface. It's not mandatory I know, but we declare the interfaces that have one method as a functional interface. All right. So above the interface after putting in the at sign I'll write functional interface. All right. So the interface is ready. Now I want to create a class to perform calculations. The name of this class will be calculator. So in this class I'll create a method to perform calculations. Okay. Public void. Let the name of this method be calculate. And this method will take three parameters. The first and the second parameters will represent the numbers we'll take from the users. So I'll write double x as the first parameter and double y for the second parameter. Third parameter will be an instance of the operation interface, and the name of this parameter will be operation you follow. Yes. Now in the body of this method, I'll call the perform operation method that we defined in the operation interface. Operation dot perform operation. The perform operation method will take two parameters. They're going to be x and y. All right so we've got this class ready. Let's create the test class. So the class name will be main test. And I'll first import the scanner class to take input from users. Now I'll show a message to the users. And I'll take the entered number and assign it to a variable. So now I'll need to show a message for the second number. So I'll copy these two lines and paste them in here. the message will be. Please enter the second number and this variable will be number two. All right. So now I can create the object of the calculator class. Next I want to reach the calculate method of this class using the calculator object calculator dot calculate. So the calculate method takes three parameters. The first parameter will be the number one. The second parameter will be number two. So what are we going to write in the third parameter. Now I'll wait. Yes. The third parameter must be the reference of the operation interface. Excellent. So if I type new operation here and press enter. Look at that. You can see a code block is created and the perform operation method is overridden. Now actually an anonymous class is created here. But if you've been paying attention it looks quite complicated. So at this point is where we use the lambda expression because, well, there's only one method. So we can create a lambda expression instead of this anonymous class. That's why we did all that work earlier. Bingo. So let's just delete this anonymous class. And we are free to create the lambda expression. I wonder if you remember the perform operation method had two parameters. So we can write these parameters in parentheses first. Num1 Num2. And of course you can always use different names here. For example, we could use x and y. The important thing here though, is that you know that the first parameter that you write represents a first parameter in the perform operation method. The second represents a second parameter. So yeah, if you're aware of this you can write any name you want. But if you're just hanging on by your fingernails, just do it like we're doing it here. So next up we're going to need to create the lambda symbol. So for this if you press the minus and greater than keys on the keyboard together you can create the lambda symbol. And we'll need a pair of curly braces. Yeah. So that's it. They're creating a lambda expression is actually that simple. And of course we're not going to forget to close the code block with a. Did we just say it together. No because I didn't say it okay. Yeah. Semicolon. Otherwise, you'll get the compile error, if that's what you've already done. Now you know why. Okay. Now we can do the necessary operations in curly brackets and show the results on the console. So that means I'll first print the result of the addition s out x plus double quotes plus sign plus y. Double quotes equals sign plus x plus y. Now I'll need to duplicate this line a couple of times for the subtraction and the multiplication. The second method will be for subtraction. So that means I'll just change the plus sign to minus. Third method will be for multiplication, so I'll need to change the plus sign to asterisk. And for the division I'll need to well check if the second parameter is zero. So I'll create an if else statement here. If y is equal to zero. I will copy this print method and paste it in the if block. And I'll change this plus sign to slash. And the result will be the divisor can't be zero. So now let's jump into the else block. I'll also paste the print method here and I'll change the plus signs to slash. Also. It's actually better to close the scanner object by using the close method. Okay. So now the application is actually ready. You're ready to run and test it. Of course. So it asks for the first number. That's a good sign. I'll enter 15 now to ask for the second number. I'll enter four. So the result of the addition is 19 subtractions. 11 multiplication is 60, and the result of the division is 3.75. So far so good, right? Let's rerun the code. And let's just enter five for the first number and zero for the second number. Check it out. The result of the division is the divisor can't be zero. That's the expected message. So yeah just like that we have developed together a calculator application just by using the lambda expression in the right places. So I know that was useful. I hope you found it so. But in any event we've come to the end of this section. We've got more though, for you. Stick around. I'll see you in the next video.
