=== 1. Building a multithreaded web server ===
All right, all right. Hello my friends. Welcome back. So in this video we're going to try to make a simple web server using the multithreading information that we've just acquired. But first we need to talk briefly about multithreaded web servers and concepts that we're going to be using now. So a web server is just a system that handles HTTP requests from clients, typically browsers, and provides responses such as web pages or other content. A multithreaded web server is specifically designed to handle multiple client requests simultaneously by leveraging threads. Now, this ensures a server can serve many clients concurrently without significant delays. In fact, why don't we have a look at some key concepts? There's the thread per request model, so each incoming client request is handled by a separate thread. This is actually the foundation of a multithreaded server. Concurrency challenges. We've got synchronization threads may access shared resources like logs or data requiring careful management to prevent race conditions. Scalability. Spawning too many threads can lead to resource exhaustion on the server. Thread pooling A thread pool, of course, is a group of pre-created threads ready to handle tasks, which improves efficiency by reducing the overhead of thread creation and destruction. Now we've got socket programming, so a server uses sockets to establish a communication channel with clients. The server listens on a specific port for incoming requests, creates a connection, and exchanges data. Okay, so sounds pretty good so far. that's enough info though. Let's just now get to building a simple multithreaded web server. We'll be implementing a simple multithreaded web server in Java. Of course, the server will listen on a specified port, accept incoming client requests, and respond with a basic HTTP message. So each client request will be handled by a separate thread. Our goal here is to build a multithreaded web server that listens on port 8080, accepts connections from multiple clients, and responds with a simple hello world HTML page. All right, my friends. Let's make it happen by first creating a new Java project. And its name is going to be Building Multithreaded Web Server. Now I'll create a Java class that will handle client operations. Now the class name be client handler. The task of this class will be reading the client's HTTP request and printing it. For demonstration purposes. So therefore this class will define a task that will run as a thread for each client connection. Now in order for this class to run as a thread, it actually must implement the runnable interface. So let's implement the runnable interface. What are you doing sitting there? And let's override the run method. Now, before writing the necessary codes for the run method, I need to create an instance of the socket class. The socket class is actually included in the Java.net package. This class implements client sockets. Now socket of course is an endpoint for communication between two machines. So we need to create a socket object for each connection. Okay good good. Lets now initialize this object in the constructor. All right. We're now able to move on to the run method. And we'll define the code that will be executed when the thread is run. And here we'll perform the operations of sending data to the client and receiving data from the client using the Outputstream and Bufferedreader classes. So we'll define this as try with resource so that when the connection is terminated, all sockets and streams are terminated as well. So first I want to create an output stream to send data to the client. Now I'll create a reader to receive data from the client. I'll be using the buffered reader to convert the input stream into a character stream and provide more efficient reading. Now, as the constructor parameter of buffered reader, I will call the constructor of the input stream reader class. And as a constructor of the input stream reader, I will call the get input stream method of the socket class. So this method returns an input stream. All right. So now we'll be able to read all the lines coming from the client and put them into a string. Then we'll check to see if this string is empty. If it is not empty, we will write it to the console. We'll be using the read line method of the Bufferedreader class to read all the lines coming from the client. Now let's write the necessary code. And it's time to create a simple HTTP response of the type string. In other words, we'll simulate the response that the server will create will give to the request from a client. For this, we'll just create a standard HTTP response. So we can create the header of the server response. It will be HTTP 1.1. So in other words, the protocol we're using is HTTP protocol and its version is 1.1. So let's just write the status code which will be 200 okay. That's the successful status code. And we'll move on to the next line with backslash n okay. We'll define the content type of the response. This will be text HTML. And we'll write the length of the response. Since we'll be returning a hello world message we can write 11 here which is the length of the response in characters. Thus, the client will know where the data ends and will not process the response incompletely. Okay, so now let's finally print the message. But here we're going to use a double backslash n and that'll distinguish between the header and the body. Okay. So now we can write the Hello World message. Yeah yeah yeah. So we've now defined the server message that we will simulate in accordance with the HTTP protocol. Now let's just take this response in bytes and send it to the client that is printed on the web page. Okay. So now it's time to deal with the error messages and properly close the socket. Okay, so our client class is ready. We can now create the Java class that will represent the server. Like the name of this class be multithreaded web server. This class will manage the operation of the server and the processing of client connections. So in this class let's first create a variable representing the port number that the server will listen to. Good. So now let's initialize this in the constructor. Next we'll define a method that includes the operations that will start the server. And in this method first I'll create a thread pool consisting of ten threads. Good good good. So now using try with resource I'll create the server socket and start listening to the specified port, and the class that we will use to create the server socket will. Be the server socket class. And let's also write our port variable to the constructor parameter. So if we have come to this page successfully, let's try to see this with a message that we will print to the console. So I'll print a message to the console stating that the server is running on the specified port. And after this message, let's call the accept method of the server socket class to accept the incoming client connection. And of course this method will return a socket instance. So therefore let's just transfer this to a socket object. And finally, let's create a thread for each client. So for this I want to use the submit method of the executor service interface. The submit method requires a runnable instance. So for this I will give an instance of the client handler class. Because a client handler class implements the runnable class, and I will write the client socket as the constructor parameter. So with the operation that we do here, a thread will be created for each client, and we will process the connection with a client handler. And this will create a multi-threaded server. Now we can catch the exceptions that may occur. All right very good. But I do want to put the codes here in an infinite loop Because web server is designed to accept connections from client continuously. Therefore, thanks to an infinite loop, each loop will accept a new client connection. So in other words, after running the application, it would be more correct to put these codes in an infinite loop so that the server accepts the client connection. Shows us the hello world message when we refresh a web page for the second time. So otherwise it's going to be necessary to run the application again every time for the server response. Okay, so now we've created our class representing the multi-threaded server. Now you know something. I really want to point this out to you. I wonder if you notice we used a thread pool here, right? If you want to, we could also create a new thread for each client here. And like I say, if you want to you can do it like this. New thread new client handler. Client socket. Let's start the thread. Yep, a new thread will be created for each client. Like this. Okay, now of course the choice is up to you. We're going to continue with the thread pool though for this example. So now we can create the main test class to start the server. I'll just create an instance of the multithreaded web server class in the main method. The port number will be 8080. So the 8080 port is the standard HTTP port generally used for web applications. All right. So we can go ahead and start the server. But I want to start the server in a separate thread. So the main thread will be available for other tasks. So here we can call the Startserver method using the method reference. And finally, let's start the thread. We could also use the join method for this thread. All right my friends are multithreaded. Server is now ready. Let's run it and test it out. All right. So if you look here you can see that the server is running on port 8080 in the console. This message just shows that the server is running successfully. Now let's open up our browser. And I'm typing http colon double slash localhost colon 8080 right in the search bar. So with this of course we'll send a request to the server's port 8080. We can send that request in just by pressing enter return. Now we see the server's response, right. The hello world message. It's right there in the browser. If we refresh the page, we continue to see the Hello World message. Because remember we did this process in an infinite loop. Awesome. All right my friends, now you've seen in practice how a multithreaded server can be built if a single threaded server is used. The server cannot respond to requests for more than one client at the same time, so other clients have to wait for the previous client's response, which causes, you guessed it, big loss in performance. However, a multithreaded server, as we design in this example can respond to requests from different servers at the same time. Well, how do we understand this then? Well, the thread pool dot submit method here actually guarantees us to be able to create a new thread for each request. More precisely, it shows that we can use one of the ten different threads in the thread pool. So in other words, we use ten different threads for ten different requests at the same time. So this shows that the system is more efficient than single threaded servers. And then see. As a result, a multithreaded web server allows clients to be handled independently, and this allows a server to work more efficiently and provide a better user experience when handling multiple connections at the same time. So this type of structure is especially vital for high traffic applications, as you might imagine. All right, my friends, now you know about building multithreaded web servers. We're going to take a short break. We got more for you though. I'll see you in the next video.

=== 2. Implementing a producer-consumer system ===
And we're back. Hello friends. So in this video we're going to develop a console application. It's actually kind of similar to real life using the producer consumer model. So all the way up until this video we've done more than one sample application using the producer consumer model you may remember. So you definitely know the general structure. But see in this video we're going to do a more detailed application. And we'll elaborate on a few of those topics that we covered a little bit deeper. Great. So before we just move on to developing our application, let's just step through that producer consumer model again to refresh your memory. In a multithreaded environment, a common challenge is managing the interaction between multiple threads that share resources. One classic example would be the producer consumer problem. So this problem actually demonstrates a typical scenario where a producer thread generates data or produces items. A consumer thread then processes or uses this data or consumes items if you will. So these threads must absolutely work together without causing conflicts or errors. For instance overproduction. That would be where the producer generates more items than the consumer can handle, causing the storage buffer to overflow under production as well. Here's where the consumer runs out of items to process because the producer hasn't generated enough. Now, the typical solution to this problem often involves synchronization, ensuring threads don't interfere with each other's operations. Wait notify mechanisms, helping threads communicate and coordinate efficiently. There's also bounded buffers using a fixed size storage like a queue, right to limit the number of items. So now let's review some of the key concepts in these producer consumer models. Okay shared buffer. This is a buffer. For example a queue or a list shared between producers and consumers. Thread safe mechanisms ensuring no two threads modify the buffer at the same time. Starting to jog your memory, huh? Locks and conditions. Tools like synchronized wait and notify in Java allow producers and consumers to coordinate. Now for this video, we're going to be using a bounded buffer with a fixed capacity and implement proper synchronization so that the producer waits. If the buffer is full and the consumer waits if the buffer is empty. All right, my friends, let's develop our console application and apply the producer consumer model. We will be implementing a realistic producer consumer system, where the producer simulates an e-commerce website, adding customer orders to a shared queue, and the consumer represents delivery service that processes these orders. So the scenario could break down like this. The producer thread represents an e-commerce system where customers are placing orders. Each order has an order ID, product name and quantity. So these orders are added to a shared queue. The consumer thread represents a delivery service that retrieves these orders and proceeds to process them. The shared queue buffer is limited to a certain size, simulating the delivery services capacity. So if the queue is full, the producer will wait until space is available. If the queue is empty, the consumer will wait until a new order gets placed. All right. So with that as your outline, let's take some action. First off, we'll create a new Java project and its name will be Producer Consumer System. And first I want to create the model class. In the name of this class will be order. So this class will have three fields. Order ID, product name and quantity. Let's create them. Now I want to create a three parameter constructor. And lastly I will override the toString method. All right. So now the model class is ready. So you might want to create this class as a record class. Um yeah. You know what. If you want to let's go ahead and change it to record class. And I'll change the class keyword to the record keyword, And I'll just delete all the definitions in this class. Now I want to define the necessary fields in the constructor parenthesis of this class. Yeah, you were right to think that that was a good idea. It seems to be better like this now with a record class, it's actually possible to define our model classes, that is, our carrier classes with less code. Good job. So let's continue. So now I want to create a shared buffer class to hold and process the orders. This class will be acting as a buffer for the producer consumer model right. This class will temporarily store data from producers, for example, orders as a shared data structure, and it will allow consumers to process this data. Now, since multiple producers or consumers can access this class at the same time, we will use concurrency thread safety mechanisms, right? For example synchronized wait notify all. Okay. So let's create two fields in this class. The first one will be a list to hold the orders. The type of this list will be order. All right I'll be using the linked list because the adding and removing are actually fast. Now let's create the second field. This will be the capacity of the list. For example, if the capacity is five the list can hold a maximum of five orders. Makes sense. So I'll just create a one parameter constructor to initialize the capacity. All right. So once we've got these fields and after I will create two methods. The first one will be for the producer and the other one will be for the consumer. We'll first create the producer method. I'll use the synchronize keyword for this method because we need to make the method thread safe, so that multiple threads cannot access this method at the same time. And we'll name the method produce. Now, since this method will add an order to the list, it's going to take a parameter type of order class. So in this method First, I will check whether the list is full or not. If the list is full, I'll not add an order. I'll wait for at least one order to be consumed and space to become available on the list. So let's just create a while loop here. While the size of the order list is equal to capacity, I'll first print a message to the console to indicate the list is full. After that, I'll call the wait method. After the while loop, I'll add the order to the list. I'll also print a message to the console. And then last let's call the notify all method to inform the consumer. So if there's a consumer waiting for an order to be added to the list to be consumed, this consumer is notified with this notify all method. And lastly, let's add throws Interruptedexception to the method signature. All right so we've got our produce method ready. Now similarly we can create the consume method. And again I'll just use the synchronized keyword. And this method will return the consumed order. This time I'll check to see whether the list is empty or not. While the list is empty. I'll print a message to the console first. And next, I'll need to make the consumer wait for a new order to be added to the list. And I'll do this again with a wait method. After the while loop, I will remove the first order in the list and assign it to a new order object. And now I'll print the consumed order to console. And again, I will use the notify all method to notify the producer threads. And I will return the consumed order. And lastly I will add the throws interrupted exception to the method signature. All right so our shared buffer class is ready. Now I'll create the producer class. So this class will generate new customer orders and add them to the list. And it will do these operations using threads of course. So this class will implement the runnable interface. Now, before overriding the run method, I want to create an instance of the shared buffer class. And I'll create another variable to represent the ID number for each order. Let its initial value be zero. Now I will initialize the shared buffer object in the constructor. Okay, so now we can override the run method in the run method. I'll first create a product array. And let's I don't know make products laptop phone. Headphones. Monitor. Keyboard. So after that, I want to create a random object to represent which product and how many are ordered. All right. So let's create an infinite while loop. And I'll open a try block. First I'll get a random product and assign it to a new string variable. The maximum number will be generated, and that should be four at most because there are five products. Right. So the index number of the last product is four. So I'll write the length of the array here. And after that I'll specify the quantity of the product. All right. So this will be between 1 and 5. So in other words at least one and at most five of a product can be ordered right. Therefore the boundaries will be one and six okay. Now we can create an object of the order class. And let's assign the constructor parameters. So the first parameter is the product id. Kind, but I need to increase the product ID variable by one. Second parameter is the product name. Last parameter the quantity. All right. So now we can call the produce method using the shared buffer object. And after each order gets added I will add a delay of about one second. Good good good. So lastly let's catch the interrupted exception and terminate the loop. All right my friends, now we've got our producer class ready. We can go ahead and create the consumer class. And again I'll implement the runnable interface. Now in this class I'll only create an instance of the shared buffer class. Now let's initialize it in the constructor. Right. We can go ahead and override the run method. I'll first create an infinite loop. And I will open a try block. So here I'll first call the consume method of the shared buffer. And since this method returns an object of the order class, I will assign it to an order object. So now let's print a message to the console stating that the order has been delivered. Okay. Now let's also add a two second delay that simulates the time it takes for the order to be processed and delivered. And lastly, let's catch the interrupted exception and terminate the loop. There you go. The consumer class is now ready so we can go ahead and create the main test class. So to do that I'll first create an object of the shared buffer class. And we're going to need to specify the capacity right. So by capacity we're just talking about the maximum number of orders that the buffer can hold and we'll set this to five. So now I want to create the producer and consumer threads. All right. So we can start the threads. Let's run the code. And let's have a look at the output. So you notice right the producer generates random customer orders and the consumer processes them. It's actually possible to observe that when the list is empty, the consumer waits, and when the list is full, the producer waits. Okay, let's go ahead and terminate that program. And let's review, shall we? Now this is actually a realistic example. And in this we implemented a shared buffer in order to handle customer orders in a synchronized manner. The producer and consumer threads all simulating an e-commerce system thread coordination using wait and notify all methods for smooth interaction. Well done. So this example, like I say, reflects a real world scenario and demonstrates how multithreading can manage tasks very efficiently. All right my friends, that's all for now. We'll take a little break. I'll see you in the next video.

=== 3. Developing a real-time chat system ===
Well, what do you say, my friends? Welcome back. So we're continuing here to make practical applications right where we can be using the thread topics that we've been covering. Now in this video, we're going to try to develop a console application where we can have a real time chat. Sure enough my friends, let's get to it. So the real time chat systems, obviously they're essential for communication in many modern applications these days. Examples. You don't need me to list them, right? The messaging apps like WhatsApp, slack, Microsoft Teams, whatever. But the goal of a real time chat system is to allow users to exchange messages instantly with minimal delay. Now, of course, in this lesson, instead of making a full messaging application, we're going to be performing operations such as sending real time messages to all clients connected to the server from the console, or even receiving message from a client connected to the server. All right. Our goal here is going to be integrating the thread. All the thread topics that we covered into real time messaging app that. Well we're simulating because real world chat systems involve additional features like authentication, encryption, persistence which can be added as future enhancements if you get my meaning. Let's just have a look at the core concepts of these real time chat systems. First up, socket programming. A socket, remember represents an endpoint for communication between two devices. Communication is achieved using TCP Transmission Control Protocol, ensuring reliable data transmission. Multithreading. Each client is handled by a separate thread on the server to enable simultaneous communication between multiple users. Broadcasting messages, so messages from one client are broadcast to all connected clients, allowing group communication. Concurrency handling. So this basically ensures that multiple clients can read and write messages without conflict. It requires careful thread management and synchronization. All right. So we've got a few key components to discuss. First off we've got the server. And this listens for incoming connections and manages active clients broadcast messages to all connected clients. Court. The client connects to the server and sends and receives messages in real time. Shared resources this is a list or a set of active client connections to broadcast messages effectively. And there you go. That's enough of the info. Let's get developing. So here we're going to create a simple real time chat system where multiple clients can connect to a server. Each client can send messages to the server, and the server will broadcast these messages to all connected clients. Sounds easy enough, right? Let's take some action and bring it to life. All right, so first why don't we create a new Java project and we're going to name it real time chat app that's marketable. All right. Let's now create the messaging app step by step. So we're going to divide the application into three different parts. We've got a chat server client handler and chat client. Each class has a specific purpose but together they create a functional messaging system. All right let's get started on this project. I want to first create the server class. The server class will accept incoming client connections. Spawn a new thread for each client. Broadcast messages to all clients. Let's create it. So we're going to name this chat server. This class is a starting point of our messaging application. So it's responsibility is to accept chat connections and manage communication between them. This class will coordinate the flow of data between clients and manage your connections. So you got to think of it as the brain of our server right. Mhm. Now I want to define a port constant in this class. So here we define the port variable as a constant using final. So it represents a port number the server listens to choosing a static port. This ensures clients know where to connect. Okay, so what's going on with assigning 12345? Well, actually this number is arbitrarily chosen, but it should be available, right? It's not going to be used by any other services. More than likely. So after that I want to create a synchronized set of client handler class. And we'll create the client handler soon. Set interface ensures each client is unique. No duplicates. So after the equal sign I will call the synchronized set method of the collector's class. This method provides us thread safe access as multiple threads. Clients will interact with this set Concurrently, and as a parameter, we can call the constructor of the Hashset class. So I want to go through this line just once more. Here we're using a set to store all connected clients. A set prevents duplicate entries, ensuring each client is tracked only once. The collections synchronized set wrapper ensures thread safe operations, since multiple threads, one per client will be accessing this set. Alrighty then. Now I'll create the main method. We're going to start the server in the main method. So first I'll print a message to confirm the server is running. Next we can create a server socket on the specified port and the socket will be listening for incoming client connections. I'll use it with a try with resources. Good. So now I will accept the client connections within an infinite while loop. The server will accept client connections. Since the accepted method returns a socket object representing the client, I'll assign it to a socket object. When a client connects, we'll log their address. Yeah, the. Get inet address method returns the address to which the socket is connected, so this line logs the client address to the console for debugging or monitoring purposes. All right. So now I want to create the new client handler object to manage communication with a newly connected client. Then we'll add this client handler instance to the client set to keep track of active clients. And now I'll start a new thread to handle communication with the client. So this line allows a server to handle multiple clients concurrently. And lastly, I will catch and handle ioexception, which might occur when creating the server socket or accepting client connections. All right. So now I'll create a method to send a message from one client to all the other connected clients. And we'll name this broadcast. So this method of course will take two parameters. The first one is the message. The second parameter is the client handler instance to learn the sender client. Now in this method, we will loop through the client sets with a for loop and send the message to each client except the sender. So in order to send the message, we need to define a method in the client handler class that sends the message. And this method will take the message to be sent as a parameter. I'll also move this loop into the synchronize block to ensure that there are no conflicts while iterating over the set. And lastly, I'll create a method to remove clients from the client. Set this way, if a client disconnects or encounters an issue, we can remove them from the client set. Now this step just prevents resource leaks. Also, it ensures only active clients are tracked. So this method will take an object of the client handler class as parameter. In this method I will call the remove client method of the client handler class. We'll create soon. And this method will take the client handler object as a parameter. All right my friends, the chat server class is now ready. That means we can move on and create the client handler class. So this client handler class represents a single client connected to the server, and each client gets its own instance of this class. This class will implement the runnable interface so each client can run independently on its own thread. Now before we go overriding the run method, let's define some necessary fields. I want to first create a client socket. Each client handler stores a reference to its client socket, and the socket is the direct communication link between the client and the server. I'll also create a Printwriter object to send messages to the client. And now I want to initialize a client socket in the constructor of this class. All right. So now we can override the run method. So the run method will contain the logic that runs in a separate thread for handling client communication. Here the server will listen for messages from the client using a buffered reader to efficiently handle input streams. So I'll create a buffered reader instance using try with resources ethers as a constructor parameter of the Bufferedreader. I will call the constructor of the input stream reader, and as a constructor parameter the input stream reader. I'll write client socket dot get input stream. Now in the try block, I'll initialize the Printwriter object. There are two constructor parameters of the Printwriter class. The first one is the output stream so I can write client socket dot get output stream. The second parameter is the boolean autoflash. This will be true if this parameter is true. The print line printf or format methods will flush the output buffer. All right, now let's read the incoming message and broadcast them to others. First I'll create a string message variable. And now I'll read the message and assign it to this variable in the while condition while reading message is not equal to null. I will broadcast a message to clients using the broadcast method of the chat server class. The first parameter will be message And the client handler will be this class. Now let's catch the IO exception. And finally, I'll remove the client from the client set using the remove client method of the chat server class. And close the client socket. Okay, so now we've got our run method ready. Now we can actually create the Sendmessage method in this class. This method is called when the server broadcasts a message. So if the Printwriter object is not equal to null, we can send the message to the client. Yeah. See? This way the client handler class is now ready. All right. So let's go back to the chat server class. Now did you notice the errors in the chat server class are gone. But here we actually did make a small mistake. And when I say we I mean me. All right. We should remove the client from the client set. So let's fix this line. All right. Now all the lines with compiler errors in this class have been fixed. Perfect. Now lastly I want to create the chat client class. The chat client class will handle the client side logic, so it connects to the server using a socket with the same port and server address. That is the local host for this app. So that means I'll first create a server address and port constants. So these constants define the server's location and the port to connect to. Now let's add the main method. And in the main method I will connect to the server and setting up the communication streams using try with resources. To connect to the server, I'll create a client socket. As a constructor parameters I will write server address and port constants. After connecting to the server, I will create a buffered reader to receiving messages from the server. Now I will create a Printwriter to send messages to the server. And lastly, I'll create another buffered reader object to read user input from the console. In the try block. I want to first print a message that the client successfully connected to the server. And now I'll create a separate thread for continuously receiving messages from the server. So this ensures the client can simultaneously receive messages without blocking. Now read the message and assign it to a variable in the while condition. I will have to make a null check if the message is not null. I will print it to the console. Now we can catch the exception. All right. So let's well we can go ahead and start the thread. So the message receiving process is known. Done. What I do want to do now is I will read the user input from the console and send it to the server. But for this we can actually use the main thread. And I will catch the IO exception for the outer try block. All right my friends, The app is now ready. But first let's observe the app with IDE. All right. So firstly I want to start the server. All right. You can see it started. And now I will start the client. And yeah you can see it's connected to the server. So I'll write hello to console as a client. So now when I press enter I should be able to see the message and the address to which the socket is connected on the console screen on the server side. Right. If it works. So let's test it. Well there you see it. We got the message on the server side. Awesome. But there's a small logic error. Did you notice? See, normally the message sent should not be visible on the console of the client that sent the message. It should only be visible on the server and the other clients. But you notice, right? The message that we sent was also printed on the console of the client that sent it. We got to fix that. So let's go ahead and open up the chat server class. Now inside the broadcast method we need to broadcast to clients other than the sender with a for loop. There you go. Now we can test it again. The server started. Client is now connected to the server and I'll write hello to the console. There you see it? We got the message on the server side, and this time the message we sent was not displayed in the sending clients console. Awesome. Now of course, after this message is received by the server, if there are any other clients, it will be broadcast to them, right? But since there's only one client right now, and this client is the client that actually sent the message, we cannot see the message on the client console. So what do you think? Why don't we run our project from the terminal screen to understand that the message has been broadcast. In fact, let's open three terminal windows. One of them will represent the server. The other two will represent the clients. Okay, so now let's access the location of our Java classes from each terminal screen in turn. So in other words, we need to enter src. That's the source folder of course in our project from the terminal screen. So I will obtain the path of the src folder. Yes indeed my Java classes are in this path. So now let's run this path in the terminal with the CD command. All right. So I've entered into the source folder. And now I will enter into the src folder from the other two terminal screens in a very similar way. Good good good. Now let's run the codes in order. We're going to first run the server class for this. Let's just first convert the Java files to dot class files using the Java compiler. And for this I'll just write the following command Javac a space class name that is chat server dot Java. So when I press enter the dot Java files have now turned into a dot class file. And this is a file that the Java virtual machine actually understands consisting of ones and zeros. So now let's run this file. And for this I'll write the following command. Java a space file name that is chat server and press enter. There you see it. The server has now been started successfully. Okay, let's run the chat client class from both terminal windows in a similar way. All right. So you can see we've connected to the server. Let's connect to the server from the other terminal. All right my friends, right now we have both clients and the server connected. Right. Of course the clients are actually the same. I mean, they have the same socket, but since we're doing it for testing purposes, it's going to suffice. You get it. Now, let's send a message to the server from a client window here, and we'll try to see this message from both the server window and the other client window. All right. So you can see the message was successfully sent to the server. And then the message was broadcast by the server to all the clients except the client that sent the message. Now let's send a message from the other client. And there you go. The result is spot on. Perfectamundo. So now we can go ahead and close the terminal screen. Now, did you notice class files have also been created? We can delete them. All right, my friends, before I let you go, let's actually review what the heck we did. So we built a real time chat system using socket programming to enable communication between clients and server multithreading to handle multiple clients simultaneously, broadcasting logic to ensure all clients receive all messages. So some key takeaways I want you to remember. Sockets facilitate real time communication. Multithreading ensures scalability for multiple users. Broadcasting logic is central to group communication, but also by dividing the app into these three components the chat server, client, handler, and chat client. We ensure modularity and scalability, so each part has a very clear role. The chat server manages clients and broadcasts messages. The client handler manages individual client communication, and the chat client connects to the server and exchanges the messages. Now this structure enables robust multi-client communication in a very simple chat application. Well done my friends. Thanks for hanging in there. Uh, why don't we take a short break? I'll see you in the next video.
