=== 1. Introduction to Array ===
All right. Hello my friends. So we are here in this next section we are going to talk about arrays in Java programming. Now in this video you're going to see how arrays are defined, instantiated and initialized. In addition we're also going to talk about a few tips on how to use arrays in their best purpose. So if you are ready, which I know you are, come on let's get started with what is an array. So in Java an array is an object right. And this contains elements of a similar data type. Yeah. So it's a data structure where we store similar elements. Right. So in short an array is a list of elements of the same type. So for example you can create an array that can hold a thousand values of double type. All right. So now you know what an array is. Let's figure out how we can actually define it and use it. So the array syntax is data type square brackets array name or data type array name square brackets. See both are valid declarations. Now mostly it's declared using the square bracket after the data type. But I just wanted to point out both are valid. Data type can be a primitive data type like int, char, float, double byte, etc. or it can be a type of string. So the array name is an identifier like a variable in the array declaration example you'll see here in front of you. Int square brackets numbers. So this means that numbers is an array that can hold int values. All right. So that's how we declare Arrays. Let's check out how we can instantiate. So after declaring the array, we can instantiate the array with the new keyword. So in defining the array remember it's an object. In Java we create the object with the new keyword. Now we're going to learn more about this in greater detail when we get to the object oriented programming section. But check it out. After the new keyword, we write the type of the array. Put square brackets. So far so good. So let's see how to define the number of elements in the array. And we're going to focus here on how to initialize arrays. Initializing the array just means that we allocate memory for the elements of the array. That is we're going to specify the number of elements in the array. This process is the initialization of arrays. Right? And the example that you see on the screen here. The length of the numbers array is five. That is the numbers array can hold five elements. Okay. The important point here is after the creation of the array. The length is fixed right. It cannot be changed by the program. For example, if we set the element number of this array to five, then we would not be able to add a sixth element to this array. Now each item in the array is called an element, and each element is accessed by its numerical index. As you can see here on the screen, the index begins with zero. That is, the index number of the first element of the array is zero. For example, we can access the third element of the array with the index number two. All right. So now let's look at defining the elements of the array. So in Java we can actually initialize arrays during declaration. Or we can initialize them later on in the program. For example, the statement that you see on the screen here creates a numbers array and it initializes it during declaration births. So the length of the array is determined by the numerical values provided, which are separated by a comma. The length of the numbers array is five. Also, we can easily access an altar array elements by using numeric indexes on the screen. Here we alter two values of the numbers array at index one and index four. All right. So that's the theory. Enough of that you say. Yeah. So let's do some practice okay. So in our exercise project just right click on the source folder and select New and Package. Specify the package name as array. Now let's create a Java class in this package. The class name can also be array. And lastly, let's add the main method. Now let's declare an int array named number array. Int square bracket. Number array. Equals new int square bracket. Let the size of the number array be five. This means it can hold five elements. Now did you notice we did the declaration instantiate and initialize operations in a single line? We could also do this in two lines. So in other words, we can first perform the declaration process, then instantiate and initialize operations like this. This is called declaration. This is called instantiation and initialization. All right. So why don't we add some comments for this array. The number array is an int array. It can hold five elements of type int and its length is five. So now let's assign values to the elements of the array. For the first element, I'll write number array square bracket zero. Now you remember right the index number of the array starts from zero. So the first element of the array must be at index zero. Then after the equal sign, we got to write the element we want to hold in this index. That is the element that we'll assign to this index. For example let it be five. Now let's add a second element to this array. The index number of the second element will be one. And we'll let the second element be minus four. You follow. So for the third element I will assign seven. To the fourth element I'll assign two. And for the last element I'll assign minus three. Yeah. So to summarize what we've done so far, we have created an integer array called number array. We stated that this array will consist of five elements. And we added the elements to each index respectively. So now we can perform whatever operations we want to and need to on this array. So for example well why don't we go ahead and learn the mathematical some of the elements of the array. So for this I just need to declare a new variable and we'll call it result. Int result equals. Now I will access each element of the number array. And for this I will use the index numbers. Okay. So after the equal sign I'll write number array square brackets zero. This represents the first element of the array. For the second element I'll write number array square brackets one for the third element number race square brackets two to access the fourth element number array. Square brackets three for the fifth element number array square brackets four. Now I want you to also take note that the index number of the last element is one less than the size of the array, that is, the number of elements. So actually, if you know the number of elements in an array, you can find the last index number of that array. For example, if array consists of 100 elements, the index number of the last element of the array is 99. All right. A little shortcut there. But now let's print the sum of the array values by using that println method. Now also I want to print the number array as an array to the console. And for this we can use the to string method of the arrays class. So in parenthesis I'll write number array and I will print the length of the number array. And for this we can just use the length property of the array. All right. So why don't we run the code. The first line on the console is the result of the addition operation. And we can see the result right. Seven. The second line is the array itself. The last output specifies the length of the array. ready? Good. So now why don't we consider slightly different scenarios? For example, even though we define the size of our array as five. Let's just go ahead and try to add a sixth element. Let's see if we can succeed. For the sixth element I'll write an array. Square brackets five. We'll let it be ten. And let's run the code. See what happens. Yeah well we predicted this error, right. And there it is. But I just want to point out its importance. So if we want to add an element to an index that is either greater than or equal to the size of the array, or if we want to add an element to the negative index, the array index out of bounds exception is thrown. Now this is thrown only at runtime. The Java compiler does not check for this error during the compilation of a program, and as a result, you cannot add more elements to the array than the number of elements you define. Oh yeah. Also, there's a thing that the index number of an array starts from zero, so there won't be able to be a possibility of a negative index number. But then the largest index number is going to be one less than the size of the array. Okay I think you get it. So now why don't we just move on to a little bit of a different subject. Did you notice see we define the size of the number array as five and added the elements in order starting from the zeroth index. But hey, is it okay if we just don't add any elements to the index? For example, let's convert this line where we added an element to the second index into a comment line. And as you can see we're not getting any of those compilation errors. so will the result change when we run the project? Well let's have a look. Run it and check it out. You can see that we didn't get any errors. And if you notice there is currently zero in the second index. That is something significant. If you specify the size of the arrays but do not assign elements to indexes, a value is assigned by default for each element to these indexes. So if your array is an int array an integer array, this value will be zero. If the type of array is a string, then this value is assigned as null. Always remember, do not forget this. Okay, now let's have a look at altering the elements of the arrays. So let's declare an int array called number array two. And let its values be five, minus four, seven, minus three and two. So the elements will be the same as the elements of the number array. Also, if you remember, we could create an array like this too. Now let's alter an element of this array so we can alter the value of any element in the array with a new value. So why don't we alter the fourth element of this array. And since we will alter the fourth element we'll use the index of the fourth element. And that is three. So I write three in square brackets. Also let the new value of the third element be eight. And I want to print the elements of the array before and after the altering with the toString method of the arrays class. All right, let's run that code. So you can see here the previous elements are five minus four, seven minus three and two. And after altering the new elements are five, minus four, seven, eight and two. So you see what happened right. We altered the fourth element of the array. So that's how you go about changing the elements of the array. But let me ask you this. Is it possible then to change the size of the array. Well let's look at it this way. You remember right, that we could find out the size of the array with a length property. So then do you think the following is correct. Your screen we've got number array two dot length equals eight. So as you can see we are getting a compilation error. So it's actually not possible to do it like that right. So you see this as a result. We specify at the beginning how many elements the array will consist of. So it's actually not possible to change it later. I did tell you that, but I just wanted to show you that. And of course it's another important thing that you got to keep in mind. Now we're going to move on to a bit of a different topic again. So first I want to create a new array. Int ages square brackets. You can also use a square brackets after the array name equals new int square bracket curly braces. So now let's determine the elements of this array. We're going to let the first element be 15. The second element B 16.5. And let's make the third element B 17. Now yeah, we're getting a compilation error. Why? Because the type of the array is int c. We're actually trying to add a double element okay. If we perform a cast operation here we can fix this error. And there you go. You can see the error is gone. So now let's print the element of this array to the console using the toString method of the arrays class. Let's go ahead and run that. So I wonder if you notice the second element is printed as 16 in the console. So as a result you can overcome that error with the cast Operation. But please don't forget that the value of the element has actually changed. So we can't create an array containing different data types. How lame is that? Well, here's the answer. Yeah, of course we can create that. We're going to do it right now. If the type of the array you create is the object class, it is possible to create an array containing different data types. See the object class is a class at the top of the class hierarchy in Java. Every class has the object as a superclass, so all objects, including arrays, implement the methods of this class. Now let's go ahead and define an array of type object called mixed array. So here we'll let the first element of the array be int. Let the second element be double. Let the third element be float and the fourth element string. Let the fifth element be char. How far are we going to go? Okay. The last element be boolean. Okay. So now you can see we've defined the elements of our array without any compilation errors. But now let's see this array in the console using the println method. Running the project. Now you see how our project was compiled without any errors. Now I know we've covered quite a few different use cases for arrays, so we're going to take a little break here. But when we come back in the next video we're going to figure out how to sort arrays. Very important I'll see you in the next video.

=== 2. Sorting Array ===
Well, here we are, my friends. Now, in the last video, we learned what an array is and we did a little practice with arrays. Huh? So in this video we're just going to talk about a new topic. Still concerning arrays though. We got to talk about sorting arrays. The sorting of arrays just means sorting the elements in an array from smallest to largest. So there is actually a ready made method in Java for this operation. Guess what it's called. So the sort method and it's in the arrays class. So this makes it possible to sort the elements of the array from smallest to largest. And it's using the sort method. So why don't we just get some practice under our belts. Because we don't need to go on about the theory. So first I just want to create a new Java class called sorting array in the array package. Now let's make a few examples for data types, but one by one. So we'll start with the double data type. And let's create an array of type double. Let the name of the array be array one. Its elements can be 2.3 11.0, 4.6, minus three .60.8. And let's have the last element be 12. All right. So let's just print this array to the console. S out double quotes unsorted array. Plus arrays dot to string array one. Also, let's add a title for this operation. Now let's sort the elements of this array using the sort method of the arrays class. So here I'll write arrays dot sort. The sort method takes an array. So in parenthesis I write array one. Now let's print the elements of this array on the console. I'll copy this print method and paste it under sorting. So this statement will be sorted. Array. All right so let's run the code and see what happens. Yeah. So you see the elements are sorted in ascending order. All right. So now let's look at the sorting of the int array. So I just want to copy these lines paste them in here and I'll make some changes. The title will be sorting int array. The type of the array will be int and let its name be array two. Now let's specify the elements of this array. Let the elements of this array be one, three, -510, two, 15. And nine. Now to sort an int array we'll use the sort method of the arrays class again. So I will change these arrays to array two. All right. So let's test it out. And as you can see the elements are sorted in their ascending order again. So that's sorting numerical type. And yeah it might be a little simple. So let's now try to sort the elements of a char array. So I'll copy and paste these lines again. And I'll change the title to sorting char array. And the type of this array will be char. The name of the array can be array three. And then let's specify its elements. So these will be uppercase letter f uppercase letter b lowercase letter b. Uppercase letter H. Lowercase letter c. Uppercase letter A. So again we can use a sort method. So I'll change the name of the array only. And we'll run the code and see what happens. Now I want you to notice that it sorts the uppercase letters first and then the lowercase letters. Why is that. Well you got to remember back to the Ascii table. Uppercase letters were sorted first and then the lowercase letters. So for example the value of uppercase B is 66 while the value of lowercase b is 98. That's something that you got to pay attention to and remember. Now let's have a look at sorting the string array. So I just want to copy these and paste these lines here. And I'll change the array title to Sorting String array, and the type of this array will be string. Now the name of the array can be array for. So now I want to specify the elements. First element will be cat. First letter of this element will be lowercase c. By the way you got to make note of that. The second is dog. The third is monkey. Fourth is lion. Fifth is elephant with of course the first letter of this element won't be in that lowercase last element is cow. Right. So that's an uppercase C. Let's sort it out and I'll need to change the array name. All right let's have a look at this output. So this time the elements of the array are sorted in alphabetical order. Alphabetical order is taken into account when sorting strings, but as you can see, the cat and the elephant are the last two elements. Yeah, they begin with a lowercase letter, and always the lowercase letters come after the uppercase letter in sorting. So let's take a look at what the ordering would be if each element was represented by numbers. Oh, now we see where we're going. So I just want to copy these and paste these in. The title can be sorting string array two. I want to change the name of the array to array five. Now let's specify its elements. Let the first element be three. The second will be 300. The third will be 24th. Make it 35. The fifth will be. 37. The sixth will be 31. The seventh will be four. Last element that's going to be 70. Okay, so before running the project, let's have a guess at the output. Now you notice here the elements are numbers and not letters. So the logic is going to look like this. The Java virtual machine or JVM in short looks at the first digits of all elements starting from the left first. So three for the first element, three again for the second element, two for the third element, three for the fourth element, three again for the fifth element, and one more three for that sixth element, four for the seventh element and seven for the last element. So the JVM first sorts these elements from smallest to largest. So in this case the first element will be two. That is 20. The second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth elements will all start with three. The seventh element will be four. The last element will start with seven, so it will be 70. Now if we look at the numbers that start with three, since they start with the same number from the left, in this case it looks at the second number from the left. Since this element is a single digit, it has no equivalent in the second digit. The second element will be three. For other elements, it continues to look at the second digit. And when you sort the numbers in the second digit among themselves. The smallest will be zero, then one, then five, and lastly seven. So the third element will be 300. The fourth will be 31. The fifth will be 35 and the sixth will be 37. Now let's run that and observe it. Yeah. So you can see here the elements of the sorted array are 20, then three, then 300, then 31, then 35, then 37, then four, then the last element is 70, you see. So as a result, if the elements of a string type array consisted of numerical values, their sorting would be done according to that logic. So I want to show you something else here. Let's take our example one step further. Here I'll add two more elements to this array. The first one will be the ant. That's ant. That's all lowercase. The other will be zebra, and that's uppercase. But before we do anything else, let's just see if we can guess the output. If the string arrays contain letters and numbers this time, the letters will sort after the numbers. The rule is first the uppercase letters, then the lowercase letters. That's always going to happen in sorting here. So the ninth element must be zebra. The last element must be ant. All right. So let's run it and observe the output. And there you can see my friends the ninth element is zebra. The last element is ant. All right. So that's all about sorting of arrays. We're going to take a short break here. And when we come back in the next video we're going to have a look at searching in arrays. All right. So take it easy until then. But I'll see you in the next video.

=== 3. Searching Array ===
An hour back, so check it out. In our previous video, we explored some examples of sorting elements within an array. So I want to just take you into another dimension. Well, maybe not another dimension. Just another related topic. What about searching arrays? That's right. At times we're going to find ourselves dealing with arrays containing a plethora, we'll say, of elements. And in these kinds of cases, we're going to wish to actually determine the index at which a specific element is located within that array. Now, while you can certainly create different methods to achieve this, similar to the sort method that we did in the previous video, there does happen to exist a dedicated method for this purpose. They call it the binary search method. So this method actually happens to be part of the arrays class. So I want to just, you know, take you through its functionality a little bit in an example. Now it's kind of crucial, actually, to note that your array must be sorted for this method to work effectively. Otherwise, the results might just be unpredictable. But you see here on the screen we have an integer array named numbers with its elements arranged in ascending order. Now suppose we want to discover the index number of the element eight within this array. Well, on that kind of a scenario we could employ the binary search method of the arrays. And this method would take two parameters. The first would be the name of the array that is numbers. The second is the element for which we seek the index and that is eight. Now after applying this the output will be four, which is the index number of the number eight. Right. Okay. So far so good. Now I'll ask you this. What if the element we're searching for is not present in the array? Yeah. You see, you got to think about a situation where we would want to find the index number of the element seven in the same array. Now, in this case, the method returns minus five. Okay. Let's get into the reason behind this. Okay. Stay with me. So in a sorted array the result is always negative when the sort element is not present. See. This way the result is prefixed with the minus sign. Yeah, but why minus five you might ask. I there's the rub. If seven is not an element in the array, the method places seven in the most appropriate position in the array just after element six and just before element eight in this case. Now Consequently, the index number for seven becomes four, but since seven is not an element of this array, it will return the order of this element in this array. So, in other words, returns one more than the index number, so it'll return five instead of four. However, it always returns the result as a negative because the seven is not genuinely part of the array. So as a result the output will be minus five. In conclusion, my friends, when faced with a question about searching in an array, the initial query should be like this. Is the array sorted? If not, the result is unpredictable. If yes, then inquire is the sort element within the array. If not, the result will be the negative value representing one more than the index number after hypothetically inserting the element into the array. If the sort element is indeed part of the sorted array, the output will be the index of that element. All right. So that's the theory. Let's do some practice. So I want to create a new class named Searching in arrays. Now here we're going to search for an element in the int array. So I will create an int array called numbers. Now the elements of this array be zero, 2468 and ten. Now did you notice this is a sorted array. Now let's, uh. Yeah. First search for the element eight within this array. And for this I'll use the binary search method of the arrays. So I'll write arrays dot binary search. The binary search method actually takes two parameters. The first parameter is the name of the array. And for this particular example it's numbers. The second parameter will be the element whose index number we want to know. So I'll write eight. Now, since this method will return an index number for us, I will assign it to a new variable. So the beginning of this line I'll write int index of eight equals. And I'll print that result to the console. Now wait. Before running the project, let's go through the logic and guess the output. So I will need to check see whether the elements of the array are sorted or not. So this array is actually sorted right? So check on the first step. Second I will look at the element eight in this array. And since the element that we are looking for is an element of the sorted array, the output will be the index number of element eight. And that is for now we can run the code and observe the output. And sure enough you can see that the output is four. So now why don't we search for an element that is not included in the array here. And I'll copy and paste this code. And I will change the variable name element can be let's say seven. Now let's guess the result. The array is sorted and its outcome can be predicted. But the element we are looking for is not in the array. So the result will be negative. Now let's just try to add this element into the array without disturbing the order of the array. So if we try to add seven in this array we should put it just after the six. And in this case the ordinal number of the seven in this array will be five. So the result will be minus five. And now we can run it and observe see what happens. And there you go. We've got the output minus five. Now let's change this array to an unsorted array. So let's make the elements be zero, 12, four, 16, 18 and ten. Now if you were asked for the index number of an element in an array like this, you will need to state without any effort that the result is unpredictable. But you can do this. I mean first you convert this array into a sorted array. And then you can perform a search operation on the array. Right. Yeah. So now let's sort the elements of this array using that sort method that we learned in the previous video. So now let's try to find the index number of an element in this array. For example for. But wait, before we run the project, let's just think about it. Guess the output. So of course I'll need to check to see whether the elements of the array are sorted. So this array is a sorted array now, so check its sorted version will look like this zero four 1012 1618. And secondly I will look at the element four in the sorted array. And since the element we are looking for is an element of the sorted array, the output will be the index number of element four. That is one. So we can now run the code and have a look at the output. There you see the output is one. Yeah. So that's that's logic. And now it's logical. Heh. Now let's do an example for the string array and we can wrap it up here. So let's just create a string array named animals. And we'll make the elements be cat. Cow. Dog. Elephant. Lion. And monkey. Right now let's just search for the dog element using the binary search method and assign it to a variable int index of dog equals arrays dot binary search. So the first parameter will be animals. The second parameter will be dog. Let's print the result to the console. Now, before running it though, let's just walk through and guess the output. Did you notice the array is a sorted array? So the result is predictable. Dog is an element of this array. So the output will be the index number of the dog. And that is two. All right. So let's run it and see what happens. Here you see the output is two. So why don't we search for another element. Let's let the element that we're looking for be ant with a capital A. Now let's guess the output. So the array is a sorted array. Yeah. So that means results predictable. However the element that we're looking for is not in the array. So that means the result will be negative, right? Let's just try to add this element to the array without disturbing the order of the array. So if we try to add ant in this array we should add it as the first element. So in this case the ordinal number of the ant in this array will be one. So the result would be minus one. Let's print that to the console. I'll copy and paste this code. Let's run it to see the output. Okay. So now you see the output is minus one. There you go my friends. Searching in arrays. All right. So let's wrap it up here. But we will take a short break and we'll come back in the next video.

=== 4. Multi-dimensional Arrays ===
Well hello there. Welcome. Now in this particular video we are going to delve into the concept of multidimensional arrays in Java. So we've covered one dimensional arrays in our previous videos. Java also supports arrays with multiple dimensions, though these are commonly known as multi-dimensional arrays and can be visualized as nested arrays. So multi-dimensional arrays are essentially arrays containing other arrays organized in tables. Unlike one dimensional arrays, A consist of a single row. A two dimensional array is akin to a table with both rows and columns. Now, when creating these arrays, we use multiple square brackets defining the dimensions, and that would be the number of rows and columns within the brackets. In fact, throughout this video, we'll explore examples of both 2D and 3D arrays, starting with a closer look at two dimensional arrays. Now, when you're talking about two dimensional arrays, we do employ two square brackets to define them. The first bracket signifies the number of rows. The second bracket signifies the number of columns. So in other words, the first bracket represents the count of the one dimensional array. The second bracket represents the count of the elements in each one dimensional array okay. Each one dimensional array is represented by the rows, and each element within a one dimensional array corresponds to the columns. In fact, why don't we just examine the syntax of a two dimensional array. And it looks like this. So in this example the array consists of three rows. That's three one dimensional arrays, each containing four elements. Four columns. Yeah. Now the arrays are enclosed in curly braces and comma separate each array. So now let's take it a step further and visualize the table representation of this 2D array. So each row represents a one dimensional array. Each element corresponds to its respective column. For instance, the element at position zero zero represents the first row and the first column, while the element at one two represents the second row and the third column. Let me show you another example. The fourth element of the third array is at the .23, which represents a third row and fourth column. Now moving on to three dimensional arrays, they're composed of two dimensional arrays. So when defining three dimensional arrays, we use three square brackets. The first bracket represents the number of tables the total of the two dimensional arrays. The second bracket indicates the number of rows in each 2D array, and the third bracket specifies the number of elements in each one dimensional array or column. So have a look at the screen while your eyelids are so heavy. Anyway, let's have a look at this example of a 3D array right here. Now in this case, three two dimensional arrays come together to form a three dimensional array. One dimensional arrays are nested within each 2D array. The scope of the 3D array is enclosed within a single pair of curly braces. Right? And the commas Separate each two dimensional array, so visualizing the tabular form of this 3D array. Each two dimensional array is represented as a table, and one dimensional arrays in each table form the rows. All right. So to summarize all this one dimensional arrays combine to form two dimensional arrays. And two dimensional arrays in turn combine to form a three dimensional array. Now feel free to pause this video here and examine the table in as much detail as you need. I'll wait for you. Why don't we just go ahead and move on to IntelliJ and do some practice exercises? So I want to create a new class named Multidimensional arrays in the array package. All right. So here we're going to first make an example of the two dimensional array. So I'll create a two dimensional array called two dimensional array with the int type. Now notice here that we used two square brackets for the two dimensional array. Now if we do need to specify how many one dimensional arrays this two dimensional array will consist of, we'll do that here. For example, let this two dimensional array consist of three one dimensional arrays. For this I write three in the first square bracket. Now we got to specify how many elements each single dimensional array will consist of. That is the number of elements. For example, let each array consist of three elements. And for this reason I'll write three and the second square bracket. All right. So let's just walk through this line again. We have a two dimensional array called 2D array. This two dimensional array consists of three one dimensional arrays. Also each one dimensional array has three elements. The total number of elements of this two dimensional array is nine. Yeah. Now let's specify the elements of this array 2D array double square. And first I'll specify the first element of the first one dimensional array. For this, I'll write zero in the bracket, and we'll let the value of this element be zero. Now I want to copy this line and paste it below eight more times because there will be nine elements total. Okay. Now let's add the other elements respectively. The index of the second will be zero and one, which means the second element in the first one dimensional array and its value is one. The index of the third will be zero and two. That means the third element in the first one dimensional array and its value can be two. So for the first row that is, the first one dimensional array is ready. Now we can specify the elements of the second array or second row. The index of the first element of the second one dimensional array will be one and zero, which means the first element in the second row and its value can be three. The index of the second element of the second one dimensional array will be one and one, which means the second element in the second row and its value can be four. The index of the third element of the second array will be one and two, which means the third element in the second row and its value can be five. See how we've specified the elements of the first and second one dimensional arrays? Now we get to specify the elements of the third one dimensional array. So the index of the first element of the third one dimensional array will be two and zero. Its value can be six. The index of the second element of the third one dimensional array will be two and one, and its value can be seven. The index of the third element of the third one dimensional array will be two and two, and its value can be eight. Okay, so the two dimensional array is now ready. Now let's have a look at it on the console. S out. Double quote two dim array. Plus arrays dot to string two dim array. Now let's run that. We'll check it out. Notice instead of the elements we see the IDs generated for each array. Huh. Yeah. So let's let's have a little chat about this output. But notice that the statement in the console starts with two consecutive square brackets. So this means that this array is a two dimensional array. And since there are three ID's, this two dimensional array consists of three one dimensional arrays. All right. So that's how you read and interpret the statement in the console. Now let's print each element of those arrays. So I'll copy and paste this line once. I'll delete this statement. Now I'll put in a square bracket here type zero. Now this will print the elements of the first one dimensional array. Now I'll need to copy and paste this line two times. This will be one for the second one dimensional array. And this will be two for the third one dimensional array. All right. So let's run it again. All right. So this time we printed all the elements. So you see in this example we first declared the two dimensional array. And then we determine the elements of the array. So now let's do another example. And in this example we'll just directly determine the elements of the array. So I'll need to create an int array called ages. After the equal sign I'll put curly braces. These curly braces will represent the two dimensional array. Now let's define our one dimensional arrays inside these curly brackets. Let this two dimensional array consist of three one dimensional arrays. Therefore, I need to create three curly brackets. Also notice that I separated each curly bracket with a comma. Each curly bracket here actually represents a one dimensional array. All right. So now let's define the elements of each one dimensional array. Let the first array consist of two elements five and 20. And let the second array consist of three elements 25, 26, and In 27. Let the third array consist of a single element 30. Now, as you can see, the number of elements in one dimensional arrays can differ from each other. Hold on to that. But if you specify the number of elements of the array first, just like in the previous example, then the number of elements of each one dimensional array will be the same. Now you can also put one of the square brackets after the array name, and this spelling is also valid. Okay, so now that we've got the array ready let's print these arrays on the console again. So I'll need to copy these print methods. Paste them in here and I'll change the array name to ages. And I will separate these lines from the above lines with another print method. All right, let's run it and see. So you can see the elements of the two dimensional arrays are on the console up here. And you can see how well that works. All right. So why don't we just go ahead and tackle the three dimensional array. So here I will create a char array called three dim array. For the three dimensional arrays we use three square brackets. You can also put one or both or all of the square brackets after the name of the array. These are also valid Spellings. So I need to specify the elements of this array. Now if you want to you can specify them after declaring. So after the equal sign I will put a square bracket. This is for the three dimensional array. Let this three dimensional array consist of two two dimensional arrays. So I create curly brackets for each two dimensional array. You see. Notice though that I separated the two dimensional arrays with commas. And now let's specify how many one dimensional arrays each two dimensional array will consist of. So we'll let the first. Two dimensional array consist of two one dimensional arrays. Again I create curly brackets for each one dimensional array, and I separate the arrays from each other using commas. Let the second two dimensional array consist of three one dimensional arrays, and for this I create three curly brackets and separate them with a comma. So now what we need to do is determine the elements of one dimensional arrays. So we'll let the first one dimensional array consist of three elements a, b, and c. Let the second one dimensional array consist of two elements d and e. Let the one dimensional array here consist of two elements f and g, and the next one dimensional array consist of one element h, and we'll let the last one dimensional array consist of four elements I, j, k, and l. Okay, so we've created our three dimensional array. You see that. Now let's see what it looks like on the console. S out double quotes three dim array. Plus arrays to string Three dim array. I'll just separate this from the codes above with a print method. Okay, let's test it out. I want you to notice here that instead of the elements, we see the IDs generated for each two dimensional array. Yeah. So let's have a little chat about that. You got to notice that the statement in the console starts with three consecutive square brackets. Right. So it means that this array is a three dimensional array. And since there are two IDs this two dimensional array consists of two two dimensional arrays. Now let's print the ID of each one dimensional array. So I'll duplicate this line twice. I will put a square bracket after the array name and write zero. This represents a first two dimensional array. For the other, I'll write one in square bracket. And this is for the second two dimensional array. Let's run it and see what happens. Yeah. So you see this time there are two square brackets at the beginning of the output. So these are two dimensional arrays. And in the first two dimensional array two IDs were created. So there are two one dimensional arrays. Three IDs were created in the second two dimensional array meaning that it consists of three one dimensional arrays. That's how that output is analyzed and understood. Why don't we go ahead and print each element of these arrays? So I'll copy and paste this line once. I'll put another square bracket and I'll write zero in the square bracket. This will print the elements in the first one dimensional array in the first two dimensional array. Let's print the elements of the second one dimensional array in the first two dimensional array. The second index will be one, and this will print the elements in the second one dimensional array in the first two dimensional array. I'll copy and paste this line three times, and this print method will print the elements of the first one dimensional array in the second two dimensional array, so the index numbers will be one and zero. This is for the second array and the second two dimensional array. So these will be one and one. And the last will be one and two. You still with me right. Then let's run the project. All right. So this time we can see all the elements in the three dimensional array. Now you've conquered multi-dimensional arrays in Java. What do you think? I'd say congratulations are in order, but they're not, because, well, we got more to do. So let's take a short break here, and I want to see you in the next video.
