=== 1. Section Overview ===
Well. Hello my friends. So we have learned the fundamentals of the Java programming language. Well done. But in this section we're going to introduce the object oriented topic which forms the basic structure of many programming languages. So you might be familiar with it, but we are going to learn the object oriented concept in Java. So why don't we just break down the topics that we're going to cover in this section. All right. So we are going to first learn what is object oriented programming just as a concept. Then we'll learn object and class. Then we'll be ready to focus on access modifiers. Then we'll cover naming conventions I promise you that earlier. But check it out. You'll be ready for constructors. Then we'll get into packages. Then we'll cover what is this keyword static and how do we actually use it to our advantage. Then you'll be ready for nested and inner classes. So what are you doing sitting there? Let's get started.

=== 2. OOP Concept, Object & Class ===
All right, my friends. Hello and welcome. So in this video we're going to introduce the concept of object oriented programming. And try to learn what the concepts of object and class actually mean in Java. So here we go. Object oriented programming. OOP or OOP, um is a method of designing and implementing software. So it covers a pretty broad range. But the primary purpose of object oriented programming is to increase the flexibility and maintainability of programs. It simplifies the software development process and the maintenance process by providing some concepts. And these concepts are object class inheritance, polymorphism, abstraction, and encapsulation. So we're going to cover these subjects in detail in the upcoming slides. First I want to start with Object and class. So a class, it's a group of similar entities, right? An object can be defined as an instance of a class. So objects are often used to model real world objects that you find in everyday life. A Java object is a self-contained component which consists of methods and properties. An object contains an address and takes up some space in memory. A class doesn't consume any memory space. So an object has three characteristics. It has a state behavior and an identity. So coming up in the next slide we're going to try to understand the characteristics characteristics of object. So just as I promised, an object has three characteristics. It has a state behavior as well as identity. The state represents the data of an object. Now the behavior represents the action of an object such as start, stop, etc.. Identity is used internally by the Java virtual machine to identify each object uniquely. Right. So the value of ID is not visible to the external user. So let's think about maybe a car and let's call it a Ferrari. The color is red. The model is 2015. These are the states. Right. So this car starts and stops. So starting and stopping are behaviors. Object and class example. So let's make an example with objects and class. For instance, we define a car class and the properties of an object car would be model, color, and year. An object also executes some actions. A car is capable of performing the following actions write, start, stop and accelerate. Now, as you can see on the slide for different values of properties model, color, year and the class car, we will get different car objects. So in our example we have one class, but we also have three objects. Cool. Class declaration. Every Java application must have at least one class definition. A class is declared by use of the class keyword. The class body is enclosed between curly braces. The data of the variables are defined in the class, and these variables are called instance variables. The action code is written in the method, and all code blocks are in the class body. So variables and methods are defined in the class and these are members of the class. Creating an object. An object is created from a class in Java. The new keyword is used to create new objects. And as you can see here in the slide, we created Mycar as an object from the car class by using the new keyword. So car Mycar equals new car. And here my car, the object is the reference which holds the memory address of the car object. We can actually create more than one object from a class. All right. So now you know all about object and class. Okay. We'll take a short break here. See you next time.

=== 3. Stack & Heap ===
All right, all right. Hello my friends. Welcome back. So check it out. In this video we're going to delve into a concept called stack and heap. So this is of course in the Java programming languages stack. And heap actually represents two methods through which Java manages memory. So throughout this next section we aim to comprehend their functionality and discern when to leverage them for development of robust Java programs. Which of course is why you're doing this now. In this realm of Java, memory management stands as a pivotal process, meticulously overseen by the language itself. So the JVM or Java virtual machine bifurcates memory into two distinct entities stack memory and heap memory. Now, while both of these are integral. Each serves very distinct purposes. The primary distinction between stack memory and heap memory actually lies in the former's role in storing the sequence of method execution and local variables. Whereas heap memory accommodates objects utilizing dynamic memory allocation and deallocation. Right, so stack memory materializes as a physical space in Ram allocated to each thread at runtime, coming into existence when a thread initiates. So essentially stack space houses local variables, methods, primitive data types, and references of objects. So each time a method is invoked, a fresh block materializes in the stack memory to house local primitive values and references to other objects within the method. All right. So memory management in the stack adheres to the last in first out or LIFO order. And that's just due to its global accessibility. So in other words it reserves space for variables references to objects and partial results. Last in. First out. The lifespan of memory allocated to the stack extends until the function concludes. So in the event of insufficient space for creating new objects, a java.lang dot stack overflow error gets triggered. Element scope is confined to their respective threads, and that's what prompts the JVM to establish a distinct stack for each thread. So now this heap memory comes to life whenever the JVM initiates and remains in use by the application throughout its runtime. The heap serves as a storage space, for instance variables, objects, and reference types. So when creating an object, it invariably takes form within the heap space of memory. With stack memory containing the reference to it. Now, unlike this stack, heap memory doesn't adhere to a specific order, so it dynamically manages memory blocks. So this implies that manual memory management is actually unnecessary. Right now, Java facilitates automatic memory management through a garbage collector, and that's responsible for deleting objects no longer in use. Memory allocated to the heap persists until a specific event transpires, either program termination or the occurrence of memory Freeing elements within the heap are globally accessible across the application, representing a shared memory space among all threads. A java.lang dot out-of-memory error gets thrown in the case of heap space exhaustion. So if you've got stack memory, which possesses a significantly smaller size in comparison to heap memory. Therefore, if you possess precise knowledge of the data size needed before compilation and it's not excessively large, the stack would be your choice. Follow. But conversely, if the exact data size required at runtime is unknown, or if there is a need to allocate substantial data, you're going to want to opt for heap memory. All right. Now we can really actually solidify our understanding of stack and heap through a really practical example. So check it out on the screen. Let's consider a couple of Java classes, one named dog and one named cat. So here we have the dog class. There are two instance variables of type double weight and height. Now let's explore the cat class. In this class there's an instance variable of type string named color. So additionally an object has been instantiated from the dog class within the cat class. And moving on to the main method, an object of the cat class has been created in the main method. So now let's analyze the locations of these objects, variables and methods in both stack and heap. An area representing each class, or more precisely, an object has been created in the heap. So consequently, we've designated two areas named dog and cat in the heap. Okay. So instance variables within classes find their place in these areas. That makes sense. And as a result we've assigned the variables weight and height to the space reserved for dog and the variable color to the space reserved for cat. Now lastly, let's examine the references. So we created a my pet object and that references the cat class in the main method. These references get stored in the stack, which is why we've placed the My Pet object in the stack section. Since this, My Pet object references the cat class. I've tried to represent this reference with an arrow. You see that now? Now? Yeah, it might just actually look a bit complicated. You might be a little confused, but I remind you, confusion is the first step to enlightenment. But I do need to point out something. No method in Java directly checks whether an object is stored in stack or heap. Yeah, actually you really don't even need to know this. You just need to know that Java allocates two types of memory stack and heap for memory control. In general, instance variables, objects, and arrays are stored in heap, while local variables, method calls, and references to objects get stored in the stack. Hey, there you go. But in any event, now you know a little bit more detail about memory management in Java. That's what it looks like. So yeah, let's let's put it on pause here and take a break. Have some fun. But come back because we got more in store in the next video. I'll see you on the other side.

=== 4. Access Modifiers ===
All right. Hello. Welcome back. So check it out. In this video we're going to explore the concept of access modifiers in Java. Now these modifiers play a crucial role in determining the access level for classes variables, methods as well as constructors within your code. Now you may know by now, but if not, I'm here to tell you. Java has four main access modifiers. Default package private. When no explicit access modifier is declared for a class, field, method, or constructor, it defaults to yeah default. So it just means that elements within the default modifier are accessible within the same package. That leads us to public. So the public access modifier is the least restrictive, as you might imagine, allowing access from any part of the code within the same class. Other classes in the same package. Subclasses and even classes in different packages. Which leads us to private. So in direct contrast, private is the most restrictive access level. Elements within the private modifier are only accessible within the class where they are declared preventing access from outside. But then we have protected. So the protected access modifier allows access within the same package and additionally from all subclasses of its class. So that means you're now ready to delve into a more detailed exploration of these access modifiers. Don't you feel ready? All right, here we go. So consider when you're utilizing the public modifier during the creation of a class, a method, or a variable, it becomes accessible from the same class. Other classes in the same package. Subclasses and even classes in different packages. If employing the protected modifier, access is granted from the same class, different classes in the same package and subclasses. However, access is restricted from classes in different packages. Now you're following me. Now, in the absence of any access modifier, that would mean leaving it to be default. Access is still permitted from the same class and different classes in the same package. Nevertheless, access gets denied from subclasses and other packages, and in the case of the private modifier, access is strictly limited exclusively to the same class with no access from other classes or packages. So now we want to scrutinize the varying levels of Restrictiveness among these access modifiers. So referencing the restrictive levels right up here on your screen. Well, it appears evident that private would be the most restrictive, while public stands as the least restrictive. Default follows private and protected succeeds default in terms of its restrictiveness. All right, so enough with the definitions. Let's do some examples. So in order to understand these modifiers better let's just create a new project. The name of this project will be Access modifier. Other options will be the same as the previous project. So without changing anything I'll just click the create button. So there's going to be two different packages in this project. Also I'll create some classes within these His packages. So I'll create the first class and the first package. The name of this package will be package one. And the class name will be Cat. And now we're ready to create the second class in this package. The name of this class will be dog. Okay, so now we've got a package and two Java classes within this package. Let's go ahead and create another class in a different package now. So the name of this package will be package two. And we'll make the class name, let's call it B. So now we have two different packages. I have two separate classes in the first package, and I have a class in the second package. So now I'm going to want to create some methods with different modifiers in the cat class. And then try to access these methods from all classes respectively. And that way we can see which ones we can access and from where. So first I'll open up the cat class and I'll create some instance methods within the class. So we'll create our first method. I'll create my first method with the private modifier. Private void private method. So this method will not be static because if it is static we can already access it from different places you follow. We'll talk about static in the upcoming videos, but just know that for now. So we're going to let this method print the following message to the console. This is the private modifier. Okay. Let's now create a method without using any access modifiers. Void default method. And I'll copy and paste the println method here. And this will give the message. This is the default modifier. Okay. Very good. So now let's create the third method with the protected modifier. Protected void protected method. And this will give us the message. This is the protected modifier. All right. So finally let's just create a method with the public modifier. Public void public method. And this will give the message this is the public method. All right. So we've created our methods using all access modifiers. Now let's try to access these methods from. Well first from this class then from the dog class right. Because that's another class in this package. And then finally from the B class in another package. All right. So first of all I just create an object from the cat class in the main method. So it's thanks to this object we'll be able to access instance methods in the cat class. right? Cat. My cat equals new cat. Now let's call our methods using the my cat object. So I'll just type in my cat dot. And after putting the dot, we can see the methods that we created. Yeah. I wonder if you notice we actually see all four methods here. But we're going to call each of these methods one at a time. My cat dot public method. My cat dot protected method. My cat dot default method. And finally my cat dot private method. Good. So as you can see, we can actually access all methods from within the same class, even though we use different access modifiers for the methods. Right. Now let's run the application and test it out. And there you see the messages that we put inside the methods appear on the console screen as predicted. But now let's try to access these methods from another class in the same package, namely the dog class. So I'll just go ahead and open up the dog class. And here first I'll create an object from the cat class in the main method. Cat my cat equals new cat. Now let's try to access the methods in the cat class in a similar way. My cat dot public method. My cat dot protected method. My cat dot default method. And yeah, you can see we can access methods with the public protected and default modifiers. So my question to you is, what do you think? Are we going to be able to access private. Well, see what happens. My cat private. Hey, look at that. There is no method, so. No, we couldn't access it. Well, let's write out the whole method. And there you notice the compilation error now. So obviously, yeah, we can access a method or variable with the private modifier but only from within the same class, not from a different class. So let's go ahead and run the application and see what happens. And yeah there you see on the screen the public the protected and the default messages are now appearing before you. So finally let's just try to access methods from the B class in a different package. So I'll open up the B's class. And we'll first of all create an object from the cat class in the main method. Cat. My cat equals new cat. Now let's try to access the methods in the cat class in a similar way. My cat dot public method. Okay, so we're able to access the public method, but do you think we'll be able to access other methods? Well stay tuned. Let's see. My cat Dot protected. Okay. So you can see there's no method. Can't access it. Let's write out the whole method. Yeah. So there you notice the compilation error. Now you see why some people have compilation errors in their nightmares. Let's go ahead and write out the other methods. My cat dot default method. My cat dot private method. Right. So there you see, we can only access the method that we created with public access modifiers from a different package, but not the other methods. So let's just run the application. And there you see only the public message in the console. So my friends there you see the practical impact of access modifiers. The. Now my question to you is do we need to use an access modifier. Or maybe when do we need to use private versus public? Why do you want to sort of briefly introduce an answer to this question. And we'll wrap it up there. But it's something to think about anyway because you are not obligated to use access modifiers when creating any object or method. I mean, it's not going to lead to any errors. The thing is, as you become a more proficient developer in the future, especially when collaborating with different developers on extensive projects, there might just be occasions when you need to restrict other developers access to the objects you create. You get the meaning, so this prevents other software developers from utilizing the objects you've created through your software, resulting in a more efficient working environment. Right. So in these such cases, you might find access modifiers useful. But typically we use private or public access modifiers in our projects. Right. Okay. So but like I was saying before it's actually acceptable not to use them at all. So there you go. Access modifiers in Java. We'll wrap it up here. Take a short break and we'll come back in the next video. I'll see you on the other side.

=== 5. Naming Conventions ===
All right my friends. Welcome back. So in this video we're going to talk about naming conventions in Java. Java naming convention is a rule to follow how to name your identifiers like class, variable, method, etc. but it's not enforced. You don't have to follow it. It's known as a convention. So that means it's just a mandatory rule guideline if you're a fan of Pirates of the Caribbean. Um, anyway, as you see here in the table, the class name should start with an uppercase letter and should be a noun. For example, string, car system, etc. the method name should start with a lowercase letter and be a verb. For example, start stop, action performed, etc. the variable name should start with a lowercase letter, for example first name, year, color, etc. and then by using standard Java naming conventions, you can make your code easier to read for yourself and for other programmers. The readability of a Java program is very important. It indicates that less time is spent on how to understand what exactly the code does. The most important concepts of naming conventions are case sensitive and camel casing. So Java is a case sensitive language. For example, hello with the first letter as an uppercase and hello with the first letter as a lowercase r. Well, they mean completely different things in Java. Camel casing is a naming convention in which the first letter of the second word in a compound word is capitalized. So you have a name that is combined with two words. The second word will start with uppercase letter always. For example, action performed, first name, etc. so what we'll do is move on over to IntelliJ and have a look at some valid and invalid naming. So first off, let me just close the previous project and create a new Java project. And we'll let the project name be naming conventions. Other options can just be the same as before. And let me just create my project by clicking the create button. Now let's create a class in this project. So I right click on the source folder and I'll choose the new Java class option. Now before we go specifying the class name, let's have a look at what naming is invalid for the class name. So I'll first write Java in lowercase and we can actually create a class like this, but it's really not recommended because the class name must start with uppercase letters. You remember. Now let's rename the class name and see the other invalid usage. So I'll right click on the class name and select refactor and Rename. And now let's put a number in front of the class name. See that error. Let's put a percent sign instead of the number. All right. So that's invalid as well. What would happen if we replace the percent sign with the At sign. Again invalid. In fact before you go through them all, all special characters except the dollar sign and the underscore are invalid. So let's go ahead and put in a dollar sign. All right. So that's valid. Put in an underscore. See how that's valid as well. So that's pretty good huh. Now you know what is appropriate and what's not going to work for you when you're making those class names. So where did we leave off? Let's create our class now. So we're going to make this class name B naming rules. And the class will have a main method. So first let's look at a few examples of valid and invalid naming for variables int Java. This is valid. And underscore Java. This too is valid. Int dollar sign Java. This is valid int underscore dollar sign Java. This is also valid and double underscore. Double dollar sign Java underscore dollar sign. Yeah that too is valid. So let me show you what it looks like when you throw in some invalid naming. In one Java. See how that's invalid? You cannot start with a digit int ampersand Java. So this is invalid. Of course it can't contain that ampersand. It's a special symbol int at Java. That's invalid int Java at Java. That's also invalid because it doesn't really matter if the special characters at the beginning, middle or end int public. Yeah, I threw you a curveball. See, this one is also invalid because public is reserved in Java. Now you can look at the reserved keywords in Java from the table in the variables video. But check this out. Int public capital p. That's going to be valid. Why? Because public is not the same as public in Java because Java is a case sensitive language. And what about int dollar sign public. It's also valid. And int underscore public. That's also valid. So you understand what we're doing. I think you got a pretty good idea of what is going to be valid or invalid for variables. So let's then have a look at the methods. Void Java with lowercase is valid. Void underscore Java. This is also valid. It can't start with an underscore void dollar sign Java. Valid again. So it can always start with a dollar sign. Void underscore dollar sign Java. That's valid as well. You can start with an underscore and it can contain a dollar sign. Void double underscore. Double dollar sign Java underscore dollar sign. It's also going to be valid because it can always start and end with an underscore dollar sign. It can also contain an underscore or dollar sign. What about void capital J Java. That's valid. It can start with an uppercase letter. But this type is actually not recommended because the method name must start with lowercase according to Java's own naming conventions. Now let's take a look at some invalid naming for methods. Void one Java. This is invalid. Won't be able to start with a digit. Void ampersand. Java. This is going to be invalid. Cannot start with ampersand. Void at Java. Invalid. Void public. That's invalid again because public is reserved keyword. Yeah, you're getting the hang of it. But what about this? Void public. Yeah. That's valid because public with the first letter lowercase and public with the first letter uppercase, they're not going to be the same in Java. All right. What about void dollar sign public. That's valid. Void underscore public. Yeah. You got it valid again. All right. So we've covered the naming conventions in Java. So why don't we just take a short break after that. But come back I'll see you in the next video.

=== 6. Constructor ===
Well. Hello there. We've already talked about object class method and access modifiers in Java programming language, but now we're going to want to talk about one of the most important topics of object oriented programming. And that, my friends, is the constructor. Now, perhaps, as this name suggests, a constructor is a structure we encounter when creating objects from a class. So constructor is actually similar to a method in Java. In Java, a constructor is a special method within a class that is automatically called when an object of that class is created. So it has the same name as a class and is used to initialize the object's state. So constructors play a crucial role in the process of creating objects as they help set. Up the initial values for the object's attributes or perform any necessary setup tasks. There are some key points about constructors in Java though. The first one would be the name and signature. The constructor has the same name as the class and may have parameters. It does not have a return type, not even void. The second is the default constructor. So if a class doesn't explicitly define any constructors, Java automatically provides a default constructor with no parameters. This default constructor initializes the object with default values. But another one to bring up here is overloading. Now, like other methods, constructors can be overloaded. It just means that a class can have multiple constructors with different parameter lists. The other key point would be initialization. Constructors are often used to initialize the attributes or properties of the object. This ensures that an object is in a valid state when it's created. So again we've got definitions. Why don't we just get into some examples. Okay. Let's say here that we've got a class called person. So when we create two objects of the person class in creating the first object, the new keyword here creates the object of class person and then invokes the default constructor that has no parameter to initialize the newly created object. In creating the second object, also, the new keyword creates the object of class person and invokes the constructor to have one parameter to initialize the newly created object. All right, so I know you're saying that's enough theory. Why don't we just get to it? So here we go. We're going to do some practice now. So here I'm going to create a new Java project. Now the project name be object oriented programming. Now don't change any of the other options and just click the create button. Now I'll create a new package in this project. So I'll right click on the source folder and select New and Package. I'll also specify the package name. OOP concept. Now I will create a new Java class in this package. Let the class name be Person. All right. So we now have a person class. This time I'm not going to add the main method. I will create two instance variables in this class. These will be name and weight. I'll declare them with a private access modifier. Because I don't want to access these variables from other classes directly. I will access them using an object of this class. So that means I'll write private string name. Private double weight. All right, so now let's declare a public constructor named person. And it's going to take two parameters name and weight. String name. Double weight. Now, I wonder, did you notice we declared the constructor as public because we want to access this constructor from the other classes. Constructors are usually public because the purpose of this is to create the object of this class from different classes. We're going to keep it public. Also notice that the constructor has no return value. So in the constructor method I'll need to assign the name parameter here to its own variable of this class. That is name. And to do this, all we need to do is use the this keyword in the constructor. Yeah no don't worry about that because we're going to do all kinds of stuff with the this keyword in other videos. But it's good enough now to just know it. So here we'll write this dot name equals name. So you see the this keyword represents the person class. And the name here represents the name variable in this class. So the purpose of this parameter is that when we want to create an object from the person class, we will need to write a value corresponding to the parameter we want here. Right? Just like when we call a method with the same parameter in a different place, we give its parameter. So in other words, thanks to this parameter, we're going to be able to assign a value to the name variable of this class from a different class. Now you can also write a different name here. For example we can just call it person name. But you know what? In general usage the parameter name is going to be the same as the variable name. So I think it's wise to stick with best practices. That's why they're called best after all. So we'll continue. I'll do the same thing for the weight parameter. In fact, this dot weight equals weight. And that makes the constructor of this class ready. So let's just leave a comment like this. This is a two parameter constructor. All right. Now in addition to this constructor let's declare four public methods of the person class we declared as public because we want to access these methods from other classes. Right. So the name of the first method is wake up with void type. In the wake up method, we can use the print method to display the person woke up. And that's the message just by adding the variable name. So I'll write s out this dot name plus double quotes. Woke up. The first method is now done. Let's declare the second method. The name of the second method is eat. In the eat method, we can use the print method to display the message. Person had breakfast just by adding the variable name. So that means I write s out this dot name. Plus double quotes had breakfast. Also, let's add a one kilogram to the weight variable by using the add and assignment operator. So here I'll write this dot weight plus equals one. All right. So that makes the second method done. Let's go ahead and create the third method. The name of the third method will be do exercise. So in the do exercise method we will use the print method to display the message person did exercise by adding the variable name. So I'll write s out. This dot name plus double quotes did exercise. And additionally the person should lose one kilo after exercise. So I'll write this dot weight minus equals one. All right. So that method is now done. So to show the weight of the person I will create one more method. The name of the last method is show weight. Now in this method we use the print method to display the current weight of the person by adding the variables name and weight. So all right. S out double quotes the current weight of after the plus sign. I write this dot name and plus sign again inside. The double quotes I write is. Lastly this dot weight one more plus sign and double quotes. Then I write kilo in double quotes you follow. So when we send the relevant parameters to this class in just a second, we're going to see a message like this. Thanks to this print method the current weight of David is 60 okay. Yeah. So you're right. I hear what you're thinking. We do need to test out this class. So why don't we create a new class in the OOP concept package? Name of this class can be main test. And lastly, I'll add the main method. In the main method, I'll create an object of the person class by using the new keyword. Person equals new person. And check it out here. It wants us to enter two parameters name and weight. So let's pass them over. For the first parameter I'll write David And for this second parameter I'll write 60. So this process invokes the constructor that has two arguments. So just briefly a quick explanation. The new keyword here actually invokes the constructor method in the person class. Now you got to note here that in the constructor method there are two parameters. So that means we need to assign a value corresponding to these parameters in the object creation process. So that's why I just wrote in David and 60. All right. So what happens then is these parameters will be transferred to the person name and weight variables within the constructor method. And then of course by paying attention the variables person name and weight will also be transferred to the name and weight variables of this class. So in other words, David is transferred to the name variable in the person class with a help of the constructor. And just like that, 60 is also transferred to the weight variable in the person class as well. Now let's call the methods we defined in the person class by using the person object. We can access the properties and object with a simple dot notation. So that means if we write person, dot automatically brings the properties of the class and we choose them to add our code you follow. So we can here add the wake up method first, then show. Wait. Then eat. Then show. Wait again. Then do exercise. And show weight one more time. All right. So let's run the code and have a look. See what comes back. There you see the results on the screen right there on the console. The wake up method is called and it displays the David woke up message. The show weight method is called and it displays the current weight of David is 60. Then the eat method is called and it displays that David had breakfast message. Also it adds a kilo to the weight after breakfast. Then the show weight method is called again and it displays a current weight of. David is 61. That's when the do exercise method gets called and it displays. David did exercise and it also subtracts one kilo from the weight after the exercise. And then lastly, the show weight method is called again and it displays the current weight of David is 60 right. So you seen it, right? In short, it's thanks to the constructor we defined in the person class that we were able to send the parameters that we wanted to this class. But now, my friends it's time for a little chat. Yeah, I really do need to tell you about the two string method. It's time. You're ready? I'm ready. But before we move on to learning the toString method, there really is something that I want you to know. So have a look at the screen first. I just want to print the person object to the console with the println method. S It's out person. Now run the project. And as you can see, an ID gets printed to the console screen. So let's have a look at that. Notice the package name. The package referenced by the person object. Then the class name. The class referenced by the person object. Then an id. Now you do remember right when we were talking about Stack and Heap previously in those previous videos. Go back there if you don't remember. Here the object person is created in stack and has an ID, but also references the memory reserved for the person class in heap. All right, now that you know that it's safe to move on to the toString method, have a look. See how it changes the code. So I want to declare a couple more variables in the person class. The first one will be age with int type. The second one will be salary with the int type. So I want to declare another constructor named person with four parameters this time name, age, weight, and salary. Now. In the constructor method, we can assign the name to its own variable name by using the this keyword weight to its own variable weight by using the this keyword. Age to own variable age by using the this keyword. You're finding the theme here. Salary to its own variable salary by using this as the keyword. And now we're ready to declare the two string method of the person class below. Now of course, the string method returns a string, so that means I write public string two string. In this method, we will return the name, age, weight, and salary variables by using the plus operator double quote name colon this dot name. After the plus sign, I'll put another set of double quotes and here I'll write age colon. This age one more plus sign for the wait, wait colon this dot wait. And lastly for the salary. Salary colon dollar sign this dot salary. And let's go to the main test class. Let's go ahead and create a new object. Let's call it person two. And as you can see this time two constructors of the person class are being offered to us here. This is for the two parameters. This is for the four parameters. We'll pass four parameters to the person class. The first parameter will be the name. So I'll write David. The second parameter will be the weight. So I'll write 60. The third parameter will be the age. So I'll write 30. And the last parameter will be salary. So I'll write 2000. All right. Now let's print the Person2 object to the console and see the difference before and after the two string method. Because this time we're not going to see any ID on the console. In fact, if you print any object directly, the Java compiler internally invokes the toString method. If it's created, otherwise it prints the object's ID. Okay, so let's just run the project again. And there you see the result in the last statement. The two string method is called and it prints name David age 30, weight 60 and salary $2,000. So there you go, my friends. That is essentially the working principle of the two string method and the entire topic of constructor. Let me just summarize it though. Constructors. They have the same name as the class that they're in. Constructors have no return value. You can create multiple constructors, and when a new object is created, at least one constructor will be invoked. If you don't create any constructor, Java automatically creates an empty constructor. All right, my friends, why don't we wrap it up here and I'll see you in the next video.

=== 7. Packages and Import - Part 1 ===
Hello friends. So in the previous video we did talk about the constructor. So I want to advance things a little bit. And this time around we're going to talk about the concept of packages in Java and how to import a class in another package into the class that we're in. So let's get started. I want to define a package in Java first because you got to know it's a group of similar types of classes, interfaces and other sub packages. If you have a large size project that consists of hundreds of Java classes, you're going to need to organize them in packages. So you can think of packages actually like file directories on your PC. And this will allow you to organize files, control access to your classes, and avoid potential naming conflicts. Classes with the same name can actually be put into different packages, and that way Packages avoid name collision. Now let's have a look at the declaration of a package. So here we have the package keyword. And this is always used to declare a package. If you see in our example we declare a package animals dot reptiles. So here the animals is a top level package. And the reptiles is that sub package. Now of course there are a few rules that we need to use to define these packages. Of course we've got package declaration. It's done at the beginning of the source file. Only one package declaration can be done per source file. If no package is declared, then the class belongs to the default package. The package name must be hierarchical and separated by dots. Now let's have a look at the types of packages. We can also talk about two different types of packages in Java. The first one is the built in package. The second one is the user defined package. Y'all ready to find packages like Java Lang Java.util? These ones, they're all known as built in packages, but the package we create is called the user defined package. So for example the animals dot reptiles is our user defined package. All right. So now that you know this let's talk about the import concept in Java. So we use the import keyword to import built in and user defined packages into our Java source files. So our class can refer to a class that is in another package. And we can use its name directly in our class. We can access the classes and interfaces of another package with the import keyword. We have a couple of different ways to import any class into the different packages. I'll show you the first one quickly. If you import package name dot class name, then only this class will be available for use. For example what you see on your screen. Now if we use import animals dot reptiles dot snake, that's going to mean we will only use this snake class in the Subpackage reptiles in the top package. Animals you follow. What about the import java.util.arrays? That means we can only use the arrays class. All right, so here's a second way to import. If you use package name dot asterisk, then all the classes in the interfaces of this package will be accessible. However the classes and the interfaces inside the sub packages will not be available for use. That's what you got to pay attention to. Now there is actually an exception to the import rule. All classes in the Java.lang package. These are imported by default. All right. So what does that mean to you? Well, you don't ever need to import classes in the java.lang. Package in our code. The system class we used in the scanner class can be given as an example of this exception here. You see, the system class is predefined in the Java.lang. Package. So we can use it in our code without importing it. Now what you see on the screen here in Java, a source file can actually contain any or all of these three internal parts. A package statement, import statements a public class declaration. Yeah. So a Java source file should have a public class declaration. You know why? I don't need to explain that. All the other statements are optional. The program does need to be written in a flow package with imports and class. So I want to do a few examples with packages with you. And in fact I actually did the implementation of the package in all of these examples. But now that you're aware of the concept, you'll better understand as we put together packages as well as the import processes. So first of all, I need to show you what a package means in the very simplest way possible. So for this let's create a new package in Object Oriented Programming project. And for this I'll right click on the source folder. So source is a main directory right where the files containing the codes of our project should be located before we create our packages and classes in SRC or source. Okay. Let's give our package a name. For example, let's say oak. Now if I press enter at this stage, it will create a new package called Oak for us under that src or source folder. Now we've already done this many many times so far. So what should we do if we want to create a new package in the oak package? Well, for this you can always put a dot and write the name of the sub package. So check it out. When we add a dot and leave it, I'd warns us that this is not a valid definition. Therefore, after putting a dot, we must specify a sub package name, for example Oak Dot Academy. All right. So press enter. And you see that a package called Oak Dot Academy has now been created. So these are actually separate packages right. Oak represents the parent package and academy represents a child package. There's actually a really easy way to see this in IntelliJ. Click on the more icon that is options in the project directory and enter the appearance menu from the menu that opens up. If you notice Compact Middle options is checked here. Let's click on this option and then uncheck it and see what we get. So this is how we can easily see that Oak and Academy are actually separate packages. And that Oak is a parent package and Academy is a child package. Cool cool. So first a package called Oak was created under source. Then another package called Academy was created under the oak package. And as a result, each dot in the package definition actually indicates the child package to be created under the parent package. So why don't we have a look at how these packages look in the file directory? So for this you can just open up the file directory where you save your projects. Or you can right click on the source folder and select Show in Finder for Mac Explorer for windows. And there you can see we've opened our project in the File Explorer. Let's open up the source folder. And there you see the packages are all here. So in other words each package actually represents a folder in the system. Now let's open the OWC package. And as you can see the child package named Academy is also here. If we had created a Java class in the Academy package, we would have seen that class here as well. And as a result, you can always think of Java packages as different folders on the computer. So it's because of these packages we gain many, many advantages such as classifying files, keeping related classes together as well as increasing the readability of the project. Yeah. So let's go to IntelliJ and change the package appearance. So in addition, each dot in the package definition actually represents a subpackage to be created. So in other words, a package definition in the form of a dot b dot c dot d will actually create packages called a, b, C, and d from the outside to the inside. So in other words, the main package will be a in the subpackages will be B, C, and D respectively. And if you put a dot after the package name while creating the package, well, you've got to specify the subpackage name as well, otherwise you won't be creating a package. Another important detail. Okay, so hopefully that's a little bit clearer, but you'll see as we go and you'll get very used to it. All right. So let's take a short break here. And when we come back in the next video we're going to continue with a console application. And we'll get into packages and import operations. See you on the other side.

=== 8. Packages and Import - Part 2 ===
Well. Hello there my friends. Thanks for coming back. Now, in the previous video we did a lot of theory about packages and the import process in Java. We took a closer look at what a package actually means. So now you know. But in this video we're going to develop a console application to help you understand packages and imports the way they work in real life. So I want to make a console application and we'll do it like this. Let's go ahead and write a program that takes two integers from the user, and let this program add the numbers it takes from the user and print the result to the console. You might be pretty familiar with this concept already. It is a pretty simple application. However, when we're doing this, we're going to create separate packages and classes, and this way you'll better be able to practice the concept of the package as well as the import process together. All right, let's get to it. So you see here I will create a new package in the object oriented programming project. So I right click on the source folder and select New and Package. Let the package name be package operation. Now let's create a new class in this package. So I'll right click on the package operation package and select New and Class. Good. So we'll just make the class name some. So it means that the some class is in the package operation package. Right. All right. So now I'll need to create a method in this class. This method will sum up two parameters given to it and return the sum of these numbers. So we can go ahead and create it. Public int sum numbers. So this method will take two parameters. So in parentheses I'll write int num1 and num2. So in this method we will return the num1 plus num2. That means I'll write return Num1 plus Num2. All right. Now that class is ready I need to create a new class to test this code, but I will create it in a different package okay. So I'll just right click on the source folder and select New and Package. And we'll let the package name be Package test. Now we can create the test class in this package. So I'll right click on the package test package and select New and Class. Good. So we'll just make the class name main test. So in the main method I will create a scanner object to get inputs from the user. Scanner input equals new scanner. In parentheses I can write system dot in. Now since the system is in the java.lang package we're not going to need to import it. But for the scanner class we will need to import the Java.util package. So we choose the import scanner class in Java.util package to import the scanner class. Good. So the Java.util is actually a built in package. So I'll just add a comment. And now let's just show a message to the user to enter two numbers by using the print method. S out double quotes. Please enter the first number. And now let's declare a variable named number one with int type. And I'll assign the next int method of the scanner class to this variable. So I want to display another message to the user to enter the second number. S out double quotes enter the second number. And I'll also assign this number to a new variable. And number two equals input dot next int. Good good. So now let's create an object from the sum class by using the new operator sum. Sum equals new sum. Since the sum class is not part of this package. Yeah we get the error. So that means that we have to import this class in order to use it here. Right. So in order to import this class just hover your mouse over the sum word. You see that the code editor offers us some great options here. Let's just choose the first option import sum class in package operation package. All right. So it's added. And this is of course a user defined package. So I'm going to just add a comment here. Now let's print the sum of the numbers s out number one plus double quotes plus sign number two. Double quotes equals. Then after the plus sign I will call the sum numbers method of the sum class using the sum object. And I'll pass the number one and number two variables as my parameters. All right. So we can go ahead and run this code now. So I'll just enter ten as a first parameter 15 will be the second. So the sum numbers method in the sum class is called and it displays result is 25. What do you say? Well, I'll tell you what. I'll just briefly summarize what's going on here. So first we created a new class and a new package. And then we created a method in this class that adds the two integer values given to it and returns a result. But we then created a different package in class as well to test this code. And in this class we use the scanner class to receive input from the user. Of course, since the scanner class is not included in this package, we just imported it to use it here. See? This way we're now able to use the scanner class within this class. Then to perform the addition operation, we had to create an object of the same class that we created in the other package. Now, of course, since the sum class is not a member of this package, we had to import it as well. So we managed to import the sum class and use it in this class. But since we created the package that contains the sum class, it's defined as a user defined package. However, since the scanner class is created by Java, it's called a built in package. So what do you say? I think that makes the package creation and import process a bit clearer. But also I would like to remind you once again about the access modifier issue. So let me just show you that let's try to change the access modifier of this sum numbers method in the sum class. So you see I'll change the public to private. Yeah. See, this time we get an error in the main method because the access modifier of the some numbers method is private and it makes it not visible to other classes just like that. So yeah, in these cases shows a quick fix dialog. Love it here. This dialog actually just gives you a list of possible corrections. So if indeed you want to go ahead and solve this problem, you just select the change visibility of some numbers method to the public option. See. So now the access modifier is public. And we can use this method from other packages. And there you go. That's a little review of the access modifiers topic once more. So why don't we continue where we left off with that import issue. Remember let's figure out how to use this asterisk or what's also known as the wildcard. It's a shortcut to importing all classes in a package. So for this, let's just create a new class in the package operation package. And let's just call it multiply. Now this class we need to create a method that multiplies two given integers and then returns a result. Right. So public int multiply numbers. In parentheses I'll write int num one int num2. And then in this method I'll return the num one. Multiply num two okay. Now let's open the test class. And you see, currently we have two classes in the package operation package Sum and Multiply. To use these two classes instead of importing them separately, if we use an asterisk marker, it's known as a wild card right after the package definition. We can access all the classes in this package. So let me just delete the sum word and put in an asterisk instead. And now we can create an object from the class multiply multiply multi equal new multiply. And here you see we don't get that error. So that means there's actually no need to import this class. The asterisk represents all classes in the package operation package. Pretty slick shortcut. All right, so now let's go ahead and print the multiplication of numbers. So I'll just copy this print method and paste it in here. This sign will be asterisk. And this method will be multiply numbers not some numbers. Okay. Let's go ahead and run the code. I'll enter ten and 15. And there you see the sum numbers method in the sum class is called. And it displays ten plus 15 is 25. And the multiply numbers method in the multiply class gets called and it displays ten times 15 is 150. All right my friends. So that is how you import a single class or all classes in a different package. One more thing I want to show you though, before we wrap it up, I wonder if you recall back a little while ago I told you about something called a name conflict. So let's say, for example, there may be classes with the same name even though they are in different packages. Or imagine, if you will, that you're working with different developers on a large project, and you may have used the class name that another developer used in your own package or. Well, to give you an example from Java itself, there are classes with similar names but in different packages. Java also has classes with the same name, although they are in different packages. So for example the date class. So if we write. Date here we can see that this class is in the Java.util package and Java.sql. Package. So I want to show you another example quickly. Well if you write timer here we can see that this class is in the Java.util. Package the Java x dot management dot timer package and the Java Swing package now. Yeah these classes have the same names. They're in different packages. So what does that mean. We can actually import classes with the same name but in different packages if we can import. What are we going to need to pay attention to. Well I know I can get a little confusing here, so let's just work through a little example. Here You'll get the answer shortly. So first let's create a new package. And we'll just make the package name package operation two. So here I will create a new class in this package. And we'll name the class some. Okay. Now we have two classes named some but they are in different packages. So now let's try to access these classes in the main class. So we have already defined the some class in the package operations package here. Now let's import the some class from the package Operations two package you follow. So when I type sum here pay attention. We can actually see the some classes in both packages. So you see here I select the class I want to import. Press enter. And do you notice a different import has occurred this time. So instead of creating it above with the import keyword, it just used the name of the package it was in. So this actually makes it clear which some class belongs to. Which package. Okay, so here's where you'll get a much clearer understanding of what we're talking about here. Let's import the package operations two package using the import keyword above. Now first of all I'll use the asterisk. Notice this time the first some class is underlined and we get a compilation error. So if you just hover your mouse over the some class, you get to see this warning. This type some is ambiguous. Mhm. So it's actually unclear which package this someclass belongs to. But if you take it another step further, let's say that we import only the some class, not all the classes of the package operations two package. So that's why I'm writing some here. And look at this. The compilation error disappears. But if you hover your mouse over the some class this time it shows that this class is taken from the Package operations two package, not the package operations package. Okay. So the best way to fix this is to specify here which package the some class is from. So just before the some class. I'll write package operations dot. And there you see the first some class is now from the package operations package. And the second is from the package operations two package. So all you really need to know here is that yeah, Java has classes with the same name, although they are in different packages. But when you need to use these classes at the same time, it's always best to use the relevant class with the package name. And that way you avoid confusion. All right so my friends, let's wrap it up here. That's really all you need to know about the concept of packages in Java, as well as the process of importing those classes. So yeah, stick around. I'll see you in the next video.

=== 9. “static” Keyword ===
All right, my friends. Hello. So in this video we're going to talk about the usage of static as your keyword in the Java programming language. We'll learn how we can apply the keyword static to variables, methods, blocks, nested classes and just see what difference it makes. So the static keyword is used for memory management in Java. It's a keyword that is very useful, and it's used for sharing the same variable or method of a given class. Static keyword usage. So have a look at this slide. We use the static keyword to declare static variables methods blocks inner class. And also we'll be able to define the static method in interface classes in Java eight and later static variable is used for fulfilling the common requirement, for example, school name of students. The school name is common for all students, so if we declare static school name variable, it'll allocate memory only once in the class at the time of class loading, a static variable can be accessed directly by the class name and it doesn't need any object. Now, the static method is a method which belongs to the class and not to the object, right. A static method can be accessed directly by the class name and doesn't need any object. Same as a static variable. Static block is a block of statement inside a Java class that will be executed when a class is first loaded into the Java virtual machine, and we will also cover nested class and interface in the next slides. So let's just examine the example here in front of you. Hey, open your eyes back there. Okay, now you can see, and you'll actually be able to better understand the keyword static. So if you remember, if we want to access a property of a class such as a variable, a method, etc., first we really do need to create an object of this class. And then using this object we could access the properties of that class. Let's see if we declare the properties of class as static. This time there is no need to create an object. To use these properties. We can directly access a properties just by using the class name. Yeah. So in the example we have a class called multiplication. And inside this class we have a non-static method called multiply. If we want to access this method inside the main method we got to first create an object from the multiplication class multi. Then we can access the multiply method using this object. However, if we define the multiply method as static this time we can access the multiply method directly using the class name without even creating an object in the main method. So that is the main usage of the static keyword. All right. In fact, why don't we just do a quick real life example using static variables and methods together? So in the Object Oriented Programming project, just right click on the source folder and select New and Package. Specify the package name as static example. Now I'll create a Java class in this package. And we'll make its name. Car. Car. All right. So let's start to write a program that implements speed. Operations of a car by using static variables and methods such as show speed. Speed up, speed down and stop actions. Now first let's declare two static integer variables. First one is current speed with the initial value of zero and the second one. Max speed with the initial value set to 180. So now let's declare a static void method that's named show current speed. And we'll give it a parameter that's named speed. So we will use this method to print the current speed by using the print method. And we're going to call this method from the other methods in this class. So we'll write a method once and then we can use it multiple times right. We do not have to rewrite the entire code each time you remember that from earlier. So let's declare a static void method that's named speed up. And we'll give it a parameter. Call it increase. So in this method we'll assign the current speed plus variable increase to current speed by using the add and assignment operator. So if the current speed of the car is greater than the max speed. Then we show the current speed. And also we can give the please slow down message by using the print methods. So if the current speed is smaller then the max speed. That way we only show the current speed by calling up the show current speed method. So let's declare another static void method that's named Speed down. And let's give it a parameter called decrease. So in this method we'll assign the current speed minus variable decrease to the current speed by using the subtract and assignment operator. All right, that makes sense. So then we show the current speed by calling up the show current speed method. So let's declare the third static void method that's named stop. And that one of course has no parameter. So in this method we just assign a zero value to the current speed variable. And we show the current speed by calling the show current speed method. All right. So now we have a car class and that's ready to go. We can actually test it. But I really do need to mention one more thing before you test drive it. You remember right in our previous videos when we created a method other than the main method. We always created these methods static because the main method is a static method, and inside a static method we can only call static variables or static methods directly. So let me just give you another example and this will help explain it. So notice that all the variables and the methods we define in this class are static. Now if I delete the static keyword in the currentspeed variable, as you can see we're getting an error. That's that compilation error because the methods we used the current speed in are static. But now the current speed is not static. So in this case we get the compilation error. In order to prevent this, you must either make the current speed variable static again or create an object of this class. The car class, where you will use the current speed variable, and then you can access and use the current speed variable by using this object. All right. That's a very important point to remember. You'll get used to it in practice. We'll continue. So let's create a new class for the test. And I will right click on the static example package and select New and Java class. I'll specify the class name as test and I'll add the main method. A static method can be accessed directly by the class name. It doesn't need any object. So let's call the methods of class by using class name directly. So after I'll write car, I put a dot. So after putting a dot we can see all the static variables and methods in the car class. So first I want to display the initial value of the current speed on the console. So for this I'll just call the show current speed method and I will assign the car dot current speed as a parameter. Secondly, I'll call the speed up method and pass the value 50 as a parameter for increasing speed. And I will call the speed up method again and pass a value 140 as a parameter for increasing speed. Then I'll call the speed down method and pass the value 30 as the parameter for decreasing the speed. And finally, let's call the stop method. Okay, so let's run the code. And now let's review the results. So the initial value of speed is zero and we speed up to 50. And then the current speed is 50. Then we increase the speed by 140. And it speeds up to 190, which is 50 plus 140. And now the current speed is one 9190 is greater than the max speed value that is 180. So that's why we show the please slow down message. Then we decrease the speed by 30 and it speeds down to 160 which is 190 -30. And now the current speed is 160. So finally we stop the car and set the current speed to zero. Okay. So even though we use the static keyword, can we still create an object from the car class and be able to access methods or variables using this object? Good question. Let's try it out and see. So if we try to create a car object by using the new keyword, for example car object equals new car. And I write objects. Speed up. And pass the value 50 as a parameter. Well, as you can see, we can also reach methods in the car class, but there is a little bit of a difference. Did you notice there's no compilation error? But we get a warning message that static member speed up accessed via instance reference. So in other words, this code works, but it's not recommended to do it like that because we're doing something kind of contrary to the purpose of using the static keyword. In short, it's valid, but you don't want to do it that way. Okay, let's run the code and you see the same results. But now you get a little bit better, right? What a static variable and method are. So why don't we take a short break, digest that a little bit, and I'll see you in the next video.

=== 10. Static import ===
All right, my friends. Hello and welcome back. So previously in just about all the other videos, we're talking about these different concepts of Java. And we learned the concept of import as well as the use of the static keyword. But now that you're familiar with these topics we need to build on this knowledge, right. So let's delve into a new topic here that we can address these two issues together in. And that would be static import. Yeah. Now I'm sure you remember we can actually access a variable or a method defined as static directly just by using the class name. So in other words, there's really no need to create an object from the relevant class to use static properties. However, if we import static methods or variables using the concepts of static import, we can actually use the relevant method or variable directly without using the class name. So I want to show you an example real quick. Up here on your screen and we'll get a better understanding. So let's just say that we have an employee class here shown on your screen. And let's let this class have a static method called show salary. If we want to use the show salary method in the main method, we can access the show salary method directly using the class name. However, if we import the show salary method using the import static keyword, we can now access the show salary method directly without even needing the class name. All right, so that's the logic. Let's let's make some practice and get this under our belts. So first up here we'll need to create a new class in the static example package that we created in the previous lesson. We'll just call the class name. Let's make the class name be employee. Right. All right. Now first I'll need to create a static variable named current salary in this class. Public static int current salary. So the initial value of this variable will be 1000. In addition to this variable I'll create two methods in this class. Okay. So now let's create the first method. Public static void. The name of this method will be show salary. Also this method will take one parameter. Int salary. In this method I will print the salary s out. Double quotes. Your salary is. Plus salary. And now we can create the second method. Static void increase. All right. So with this method I will increase the salary of the employee. So this method will also take a parameter int raise. And then inside this method well let's just show a message stating that the worker has received a raise. And then after this message I will increase the value of the current salary variable according to the raise parameter. Current salary plus equals raise. And then I'll print the current salary on the console using the show salary method. Show salary. Current salary. Yeah. Good. So now let's try to access these methods from the main method. So I'll just open the test class that we created previously. I will convert the codes that we wrote in the previous video to the comment line. Now we can continue and we'll just access the methods in the employee class with a class name employee dot show salary for the salary parameter. We can use the current salary. And you can see here we can access the first method with a class name. Let's go ahead and access the second method employee dot increase. So as the raise parameter I'll write 500. We can also access the second method with a class name. Good. Now we can run the code. There you see, the program is running without any problem. Now, you've already learned what we've done to get to this stage, right? So that means here we're going to actually focus on how we can do this with static import. You're wondering why we were doing that all over again huh. So here I want to actually avoid using the class name with static import. Okay. So that means just below the package name I'll write import static static example dot employee dot. Then after the dot, whichever method or variable I will use, I must write the name of that method or variable. So let's first try to access the show salary method. All right. So now we can delete the class name that we wrote before the show salary method. Hey, do you see that? No compilation errors. Good. Something's working. Huh? Let's just do the same thing for the increase method, and I'll copy and paste this. Import static expression. This time the method will be increase. Yeah. Now we can delete the employee class in front of the increase method you see. And once again no compilation errors. So lastly I just want to import the static current salary variable. And I'll delete the employee class. All right. Good. So now we can go ahead and run the application and have a look at the result. There you see the application doesn't crash and the result was successfully printed to the console. But I wonder if you notice we've actually used separate imports for the static fields of the employee class. Yeah. So there is a way we can actually automatically import all the static fields in the employee class just by using. Yeah. The asterisk. That's that wild card. That's why I showed it to you earlier. So I'll just delete the last couple of lines here. And I'll put in an asterisk instead of the method name. Look at that. We get no errors because this method of use is also valid. Let's go ahead and test it this way. There you see the output is the same. What you do need to pay attention to here is the static keyword. That's the necessary one. Actually if we remove it we do get that compilation error. All right. Now that you're going to pay attention to that, let's do it with another example. This one's going to be a little different. So far we've worked on the classes and the methods that we created. What do you think? Can we perform the static import on already defined classes and methods in Java? Well, before you think too hard, let's just have a look. What's it going to look like? So I think perhaps the best example for static import is the methods defined in the math class defined in the Java.lang package. Because all methods in the math class are static. So if you are going to make an application about mathematical operations, and you're going to be using the math class all the time, that means you can just go ahead and use a static import concept for that math class. But before you get too far ahead, let's just do a few examples. So for example, let's call the min method of the math class Math.min. So this method returns the smaller of two values given to it. So I'll write 20 and 30 in parentheses. And just press a control key on the keyboard and click on the min method. And you can see the min method is a static method. But also if we look at the other methods in the math class, we can see that there are also static. All right. Let's continue from where we left off. This time let's call the POW method. Now this is another method in the math class. Watch carefully. Right. So this method takes two parameters and calculates the first number to the power of the second number. For example, let's just write three as the first parameter two is the second parameter. So you see it's going to calculate three to the second power. There you see we can access these static methods directly just by using the class name. Now let's try to get rid of the class name using the static import method. So I'll write import static. Java.lang dot math. Then whichever method or variable I will use, I do have to write the name of that method or variable. So for example I'm typing min. Let's just copy and paste this line in. This will be pow. And we can now go ahead and delete the math class. And there you see we get no compilation errors. So why don't we just print these values to the console. Now let's run the application. Have a look at the result. Excellent. So you don't see any application crashes. And the result was successfully printed to the console. Now let's automatically import all the methods in the math class using the wild card. And I'll put an asterisk. Check it out. No compilation error. So let's run it and test. So here you see the output is the same. So that means it works. I want to do another example though the out which is a field of the Printstream class. We use that to print data to the console. It's also defined as static. So if we also import the system class we can no longer use system here. All right. Let's just do it now. Import static Java.lang dot system dot out. Now let's delete the system classes here. There you see no errors. So why don't we just go ahead and test it out. Run the application and yeah, it's running successfully. So there you go, my friends. That is the concept of static import. And as a result, you can access static fields of a class directly using static imports. So why don't we just take a short break here, but come back? I'll see you in the next video.

=== 11. Nested & Inner Classes ===
All right. Hello. Hello my friends. Welcome back. Now, in the previous video we definitely learned how to use static import. In this video we're going to talk about nested classes. So this is also related to how you use the static keyword. But before we get too far ahead of ourselves what actually is the nested class? Well have a look at your screen because we need to define a class within another class sometimes. And it's definitely possible in Java. So when you create a class within another class, you then get a nested class as a result. Now the scope of a nested class is actually bounded by the scope of its enclosing class. So it means it's a member of the outer class and as a member of its enclosing or outer class. A nested class can be declared private, public, protected, or default. In fact, there are a couple of types of nested classes in Java. The first one is the static nested class. The second one is yeah, the non-static nested class. This class is also known as the inner class. Also, we could divide non-static nested classes into two local inner class and anonymous class. But in this video we're going to focus on static and non-static nested classes. Then we'll get to the local inner class and anonymous classes later. But for now we'll talk about the main difference between static and non-static nested classes. The static nested classes cannot access non-static members of the outer class Okay. They can only access static members of the outer class, right? Non-static static. The access modifiers. Not actually important here. The situation doesn't even change if the properties have the public access modifier. However, the non-static nested classes or inner classes may access all members, such as static and non-static variables, as well as the methods of its outer class. Also, an inner class may access private variables and methods of its outer class. Okay, so that's just the theory. Let's do some practice and you'll you'll get it, I assure you. So here I'm going to create a new class in object oriented programming project. And we'll just make the package name nested classes. I do want to specify the class name. It can be persons. So our first example will be for a static nested class. So let's create some variables with different access modifiers in this class. Then let's create a static nested class within this class. Okay. Now let's try to access the members of our outer class from that static nested class. Let's start with the first variable. The access modifier of the first variable will be default. It will be static. So that means I'll write static string person one. Equals double quotes. John. All right. Now let's create the second variable with the private access modifier and static keyword. Private static string person two equals double quotes. David. And the last variable will be with a public access modifier. But this time not going to use a static keyword. So it will be a non-static variable. Public string person three equals. Andy. All right. Now let's go ahead and try to access these variables from the static nested class. We'll need to create a static nested class in this class. Let's create a static nested class named static person. And in this class, I will create a method to print the value of the members of the outer class. Void show. In this method I'll create three print methods. S out double quotes. Person one equals plus person one. And as you can see in the first print method we can access the static variable. Person one. Let's go ahead and create the second print method. S out double quotes. Person two equals plus person two. And in the second print method we can also access the private static variable person two. And let's create the third print method s out double quotes. Person three equals plus person three. Well, check it out. In the last print method we cannot access the non-static variable person three even though it has a public access modifier. So you see that's why we've got this compilation error for this statement. Because a static nested class cannot directly access the non-static variables of the outer class. Hard and fast rule. Please pay attention to that. So I'm just going to comment out this line. Now let's create a new class in the Nested Classes package to test the static nested class. So here I will specify the class name as static nested test. Okay, now I want to access the show method in the static nested class. Right? That's the static person class. Since the show method is not static. To reach this method, we will need to create an object from the static person class. In order to access the inner static person class, we first use the outer class, which is the persons class, and then we use the dot operator and then the static nested class, which is the static person class. Heh. Yeah. You got it. First outer class, then inner class. That means all right persons, after the dot static person. The outer class is persons. The static inner class is static person follow. So if the show method in the inner static person was static. At this stage, we could add one more dot and then access the static method directly. Hopefully you remember we talked about this in detail in the previous video, but for this example, since we do not define the show method as static, we must create a new object here and access the show method with this object. Let's just do it. So we'll create a person object by using the new keyword. Person equals new persons dot static person. And also I do want to show you another thing. At this stage, if you don't want to use the outer class here like that, you can remove it. But this time you would import the static nested class that is the static person class. Yeah, you heard that right. You can import it. But I wonder if you remember. We also said that we perform the import process when using classes in different packages. But see, in this way we can still use the import operation when working with nested classes. So for example, let me just copy and paste this line and turn the previous line into a comment line, because I want this usage to stay here as well. Good. Now let's delete the outer class from here and from here as well. And now you see that we're getting that compilation error right. But if you hover the cursor over the static person you see that there are some options. So here I'll just select the import static person class. And there you can see both of the import processes work and we no longer receive any errors from the compiler. That means that both usages are valid. So either import and do not use the outer class, or create an object by writing the outer class and then the inner class before dealing with the import. So all that means that we can now call the show method using the person object. The show method will print the values of variables person one and person two. Good. So let's go ahead and run the code. And you see the values of the variables. Person one is John and person two is David. All right, my friends. So that is the static nested class. Let's do another example though with the non-static nested class that is the inner class. And for this I'll need to create a new class in the nested classes package. I will specify the class name users. Now you see in this class I want to define variables similar to what we just did. So I'll just copy the declaration of three variables from the persons class. And I can paste them into the users class. Okay good. So now let's try to access these variables from the inner class. So I'll just need to create a non-static nested class that is the inner class. Class inner user. And again I'll create a show method in this inner class. I'll create three print methods. In the first print method I will try to access the static variable person one s out. Double quotes. Person one plus person one. All right, so we accessed it. Second print method I will try to access the private static variable person two s out. Double quotes. Person two plus person two. And there we go. We have access to person two. Now for the last print method I will try to access the non-static public variable. Person three s out. Double quotes. Person three plus person three. We'll check it out. We've also got access to the last variable. Person three. And this, my friend, is a very important point. I wonder if you remember in this static nested class we couldn't access the variable person three but you see this. We now do have access to it in the non-static inner class. So our result here is if the inner class is static, the variables of the outer class must be static in order to use them. Otherwise we wouldn't be able to use them in the static inner class. But if the inner class is not static, well, it's not going to be a problem. We can access them. So let's just create a new class and we can test this code. So here we're going to make the class name inner class test. Now to instantiate an inner class we must first instantiate the outer class. Yeah. Yeah. Then we'll create the inner object using the outer object. So let's create an outer object by using the new keyword first, and then create an inner object. Users. Outer equals new users. Now let's create an object from the inner class users dot inner user inner equals outer dot new inner user. So the syntax is a little bit different from the other one, but to create an object from the non-static inner class, just write it like that and you'll be good to go. Also, you can import the inner user class again, and that way you wouldn't have to use the outer class here. So yeah, let's just show that as an example. Let's delete this outer class here. And I'll move the cursor over the inner user class. And I can now select the import inner user class as an option. And the compilation error disappears. But you see what we're saying here right. You have to use this outer object here. Because if we remove the outer object here, we do get a compilation error. Now when you actually examine the error message, you'll be able to understand that we need to use the object of the outer class. And then as a result, to create an object from the non-static inner class, just go ahead and use this syntax. All right. So far so good. Good. Hang in there. Now let's call the show method using the inner object. Now let's run the code and observe the output. Yeah. So what you're looking at is the values of the variables are printed on the console without any errors. And that, my friends, is a difference between static and non-static nested classes. All right. Very good. I think you've earned a short break here, but stick around. We got more to do in the next video. I'll see you then.

=== 12. Local inner classes ===
Well. Hello my friends. Welcome back. Now in the previous video we discussed these nested classes. And I'm sure you recall there were a couple of different types of nested classes static and non-static classes. Those non-static classes are also known as inner classes. Inner classes in Java can be categorized under two headings, right. These are local classes and anonymous classes. Yeah. So you know what's coming right. We're going to get into this concept of local classes. However we will also explore how to use anonymous classes after we actually wrap our heads around understanding the concepts of interfaces and abstract classes. So that's why we're going to focus on local classes right now. So the local class, All these local classes are just classes defined in a block. All right. And a block is a group of zero or more statements between balanced braces. So typically you can find local classes defined in a body of a method. Local classes are actually the inner classes defined inside a block. And generally this block is a method body. Now sometimes this block can be a for loop or an if clause. Local inner classes are not members of any enclosing classes. They actually belong to the block they're defined within. And that means local inner classes cannot have any access modifiers associated with them. However, they can be marked as final or abstract. All right. This class has access to the fields of the enclosing class. Local inner classes must be instantiated in the block they're defined in. So check it out. Here are the main things that you really do need to know about local classes. The local class is confined to the block in which it's defined. All right, that makes sense. Easy enough. Instantiating a local class from outside the block where it originates from is not permissible. Now, up until JDK seven, the local class could only access the final local variable of the enclosing block. However, things started to change a little bit by the time they wrote JDK eight. They made it possible to access non-final local variables of the enclosing block in the local class. That's a big deal. A local class is actually granted access to the members of its enclosing class. Non-static by nature. Local classes have access to instance members of the enclosing block. Again, another triumph of Java eight. If you declare the local class within a method, it gains the ability to access the method's parameters. All right, those are the main points. Now that you know all of that information, let's do some practice using local classes. So we'll first make an example console application. And you'll better understand how to use these local inner classes. So again let's just get a number from the user. And then we'll inform the user whether this number is odd or even. It's actually a very simple console application. But while we're doing this application we're going to be using the local inner class. And of course, we're going to learn how and why and what we're going to pay attention to when using this class. Let's get to it. So first up, I want to create a new class inside the Nested Classes package. The class name can be local inner class example. And here I will create a method outside the main method. Public static void. The name of this method can be check number. And this method will take the number entered by the user as a parameter. So I'll write int entered number. Now we'll create the local class in this method. But first I need to create an integer value. Int result equals zero, so the value of this variable will be zero. And because we'll soon look at the remainder after dividing the number by two, to understand whether or not the number entered by the user is odd or even right, if the remainder is the same as the result variable, that is zero, the number is even. If not, it's an odd number. Now maybe you're wondering why there's actually a need for this. We can actually do the check directly with an if statement. Yeah, well of course yeah go ahead. But you're going to see why in a minute or two whether or not we can access this variable and whether the local class can access the member of the method that contains it. That's why we're doing it like this. All right. So now that I got that off my chest, let's continue. So here I'll create a local class now. Class number checker. And first I'll create a boolean variable to hold the result. Boolean check. Now I'll create the constructor of this class. Public number checker. And this constructor will take one parameter. So I'll write. Int number. My purpose in creating this constructor is like this. After writing the necessary code for the class, I want the number to be entered. At the same time while creating an object from this class in the method, if the number is not entered, I don't want the object to be created. You follow. So this way a certain number will be entered thanks to this constructor. Otherwise the class won't even be used. All right, now let's create a ternary statement to check to see if the number is odd or even. So I'll pass the result to the check variable. Check equals number. Percentage two is equal to result. After putting a question mark. I'll write true. Then after the colon I'll write false. So to refresh your memory about the ternary operator, you can actually go back to the previous video and watch it over again because we're just going to keep going. All right. So I also want to point out here that the result variable that we use is actually an element of the method surrounding the local class. Yeah. So we were able to access this element directly. Now remember before Java eight we could only access variables that were final. Now we're going to also learn about the final keyword and some of the future videos. But right now at this stage, just know that before Java eight, we could only access final variables. After Java eight, we can access final or non-final variables. Okay my friends, moving on. Now that the constructor is ready, we can now create a different method inside the local class. So for example, let's create a method that shows the number entered by the user. Okay. Public void print. Number. In this method I want to show the number to the user using the println method. S out double quotes you entered. Then after the plus sign, I'll write the entered number variable, and you can see we directly access the entered number parameter. So the entered number parameter is the parameter of the enclosing method of the local class. So after Java eight we can actually directly access the method parameters in the local class. Very useful and important trick my friends. Okay, so now we have this local class ready. It's time to put it to good use. So first up I want to try to call the number checker local inner class in the main method. As you can see yeah we don't have access to it. Now let's try to call the local inner class example class. Okay. Again we cannot access the number checker. Local inner class. So you see we can only access the local classes from inside the block where it's defined. All right. So yeah that's another little trick about the local class. So let's continue in the check number method I want to create an object from the local class number checker. Checker equals new number checker. So first I will call the print number method here. Now I'll create an if else statement again in this. If else I will check to see whether the check variable of the local class is true or not. If the checker dot check, that is the. If the check variable is true, the entered number is even. All right. So let's give that message to the user. Entered number plus double quotes is an even number. Else That is, if the check variable is false, the entered number is odd. So I'll copy this print method and paste it into the else block. This will be odd. Okay, the local class and the method that the local class is in are now ready. All right. That means we can move our focus to the main method. So first here I will import the scanner class to get the number from the user scanner. Scanner equals new scanner System.in. After that I'll give a message to the user to enter a number. S out double quotes. Please enter a number. Now let's pass the number entered by the user to a variable. Int input equals scanner dot Nextint. Now let's call the check number method and I will pass the input variable as the parameter of this method. And lastly I need to close the scanner. Good good good. So now everything's ready. Let's go ahead and run the code and test it. So here I'll just enter ten. Okay. As you can see first it prints the number that I entered and then it prints the ten is an even number. So that much works. Let's just run it again. This time I'll enter five. And there you see the output is five is an odd number. So far so good. So here, my friends, you now know how to use the local inner class through a well, a very simple example. I know you're going to be using that in the future. So we're going to take a short break here. But stick around. I'll see you in the next video.
