=== 1. Thread debugging tools ===
All right. Hello. Hello. Hello my friends. Welcome back. Check it out. We need to talk about thread debugging tools. So debugging multithreaded applications is inherently challenging as you might imagine due to the concurrent nature of threads. So bugs in such applications often result from race conditions, deadlocks or incorrect synchronization, making them elusive and difficult to reproduce. So we've got some specialized tools and techniques because they're absolutely necessary to debug multithreaded applications effectively. Now let's review some of the common problems encountered in multithreaded debugging, because we've gone through from the other side. Write race conditions. You're familiar. This occurs when multiple threads access shared resources without proper synchronization, leading to remember unpredictable results. Deadlocks happen when two or more threads are waiting on each other to release locks, causing the system to freeze. Thread leaks. These are threads that are created but never terminated, leading to resource exhaustion. Thread priority issues so incorrect thread priorities may result in performance bottlenecks, but also unexpected behavior. So you see there's a lot of unpredictability going on here. And to address these issues and more, we can use some thread debugging tools to provide insights into thread execution, the synchronization as well as resource utilization. Now here are some very popular and widely used tools. Thread dump analysis tools. These tools generate a snapshot of all the threads in the program, providing details about their states, stack traces and locks they hold or wait for. Some examples would include J stack and Visualvm and Java Integrated Development Environment. The IDE tools. Most modern Ides, like IntelliJ Idea or eclipse have built in debugging capabilities for threads. They allow setting breakpoints, inspecting thread states, as well as stepping through code profilers. So we've got profilers like Visualvm, your kit, and J profiler. These all provide detailed information about thread performance, lock contention and CPU usage. Also logging tools. So logging frameworks like Log4j2 or Pslf SLF for J. These can help track threat activity by adding detailed logs to your code. Static analysis tools though like Findbugs or Sonar Cube, these can detect potential threading issues at compile time. All right. So that's what we've got to work with. Let's get in some practice. All right. So let's uh, set up a practice session. We're going to debug a simple multithreaded Java program experiencing a deadlock. So the program that will be working with here will simulate two different threads trying to acquire locks on two shared resources in opposite orders. What does that cause a deadlock. Let's take some action, my friends. So we'll first just create a new Java project and we'll name it Thread debugging. Now in this project I want to create a Java class. Let its name be deadlock example. And I'll first create two reentrant lock objects. And after that I'll add the main method. So in the main method I will define the first task using the runnable. With this task, Thread1 will acquire lock one first and then attempt to acquire lock two. So let's create task one. I will acquire lock one with a lock method. I'll also print a message to indicate this status. Also, why don't we add a delay of about a half a second? Good. So after that, I will acquire lock two. And let's print a message. And I'll add a delay. So after that first, I'll release the lock number two. Let's add a delay again. And let's release lock one. So I want to catch the interrupted exception. Good. Task number one is ready. Let's go ahead and define the second task. So with the second task thread two will acquire lock two first and then attempt to acquire lock one. Let's code it out. All right, now we've got task two ready. Let's run both tasks simultaneously to simulate the deadlock. All right, let's run it and observe. Let's have a look at the first line. So thread one successfully acquires lock one enters its first critical section and then attempts to acquire lock two. But lock two is already held by thread two. Thread one is now blocked waiting for lock two. Good. Now let's look at the second line. Thread two successfully acquires lock two and enters its first critical section. It then attempts to acquire lock one, but lock one is already held by thread one. Thread two is now blocked waiting for lock one. What have we got? Say it with me. Deadlock. Right. Okay. Neither thread can proceed, obviously, because thread one is waiting for lock two, which is held by thread two. Thread two is waiting for lock one, which is held by thread one. We've got a circular dependency here, my friends. Both threads are stuck indefinitely, unable to make progress. So this program hangs at this point unless. External intervention occurs. Now just remember we're setting this up to do this on purpose. I'm reminding you of that because you might just be scratching your head going, wait a minute. Is it really happening like this? How is it possible to get my head around it? And yeah, at this point, we can use a tool that's going to make it easier for us to understand the problem and help us fix it. So I'm going to bring in my very good friend Jay Stack, to understand and analyze this deadlock. How's that? Well, let's first open up a terminal screen. So now we need to find the process ID of this program. And we can find it with the japes command. Yeah. So if you notice, the code next to our class is the process ID of the running program. Now let's run this ID with a J stack command and see what we got. Right. You see that it gave us the thread dump that contains information about the deadlock. And within this dump, we need to look for a section called found one Java Level deadlock. And that defines the relevant threads and resources. Now this section is usually located at the end of the dump. And sure enough, there it is. So when you look at the explanation here, well you can clearly understand the thread. One cannot acquire lock two and thread two cannot acquire lock one. So we've now understood what the problem we encountered Just by using Zstack. Okay, so let's try and solve this problem now. Now we know that deadlock occurs when two threads try to acquire locks in different orders. If all threads acquire locks in the same order. Well, there you go. Deadlock does not occur. Therefore, in order to prevent deadlock, we need to change the code to ensure consistent lock order. So what we're going to do is this. In task two we will first acquire lock one then lock two. This is quickly updated the code accordingly. Yeah. So the locks will be acquired in the same order for both threads. Let's go ahead and run it again. Haha. Well there you see, lock acquisitions are done in order. Both threads acquire the locks without any problems. And this time the program terminates successfully without hanging. Well done, my friends. So we've explored J. Stack. It's a great thread debugging tool. We've also introduced you to some other ones you can play around with. But this is how you identify and resolve a deadlock in a multithreaded program. Okay. Debugging multithreaded code requires careful observation of thread states as well as synchronization issues. Now guess what? This is just our first video on thread debugging tools. Next, when we come back, we'll focus on unit testing multithreaded code, which is equally vital for ensuring robust multithreaded applications. So if you're as excited as I am, I will see you in the next video very soon.

=== 2. Unit testing multithreaded code ===
All right, all right, all right, my friends. Welcome back. So in the previous video we talked about some debugging tools for threads. So in this video we need to talk about unit testing in multithreaded code. Unit testing is actually a fundamental aspect of software development that ensures individual components work as expected. However, testing multithreaded code introduces some unique challenges. You might remember why threads execute concurrently, making behavior unpredictable, and potential issues like race conditions, deadlocks, and inconsistent states can be very hard to reproduce. So when testing multithreaded code, you got to pay attention to these key considerations. Thread safety by ensuring shared resources are accessed and modified safely. Race conditions by detecting and handling situations where the outcome depends on the order of execution. Deadlocks by identifying and resolving situations where threads are stuck. Waiting for resources indefinitely. Determinism writing tests that are consistent and reliable despite concurrency. All right. Now let's talk about some approaches to testing multithreaded code isolation. You got to test each thread independently, ensuring that the logic within each thread is correct. Mocking dependencies use mock objects to simulate external dependencies or shared resources. Controlled execution use tools or frameworks to control thread execution, ensuring predictable results. Timeouts define timeouts for thread operations to detect and report hanging tests. Stress testing, run tests with multiple threads and high workloads to simulate real world conditions. So now you know the definitions. But frameworks like Java's JUnit provide annotations and utilities to facilitate testing multithreaded code. Advanced tools like await ability can help verify asynchronous behavior. You want to get some practice time? Let's do it. We're going to write a unit test for a shared resource accessed by multiple threads. So the scenario would involve a thread safe counter class that increments a counter. So our test needs to ensure the counter increments correctly. There are no race conditions even with multiple threads. Sounds simple enough. Let's get started. So we'll need to first create a new Java project named Unit Testing multithreaded code. Now I want to create a new Java class in this project. So the class name is going to be Thread Safe Counter. This class will use a reentrant lock to ensure thread safety when incrementing and reading a counter. So in this class I want to first create a counter as a shared resource. Its initial value will be zero. And I'll create a reentrant lock object. Now I'll create a method to increment the counter. I will acquire the lock. Now let's go ahead and increment the counter. After that, I'll release the lock. All right, so we've got our increment method ready. So I want to create a getter method of the counter to read its value. Before returning its value. I'll need to acquire the lock. After returning, I'll release the lock. But since return statement should be the last line in a method, I need to create a try and finally block and release the lock in the finally block, right? Okay, so the Threadsafe counter class is now ready. Let's create a test class. So its name will be Thread Safe counter test. For the unit testing, I will use the JUnit five. So before writing the necessary code for this test class, we have got to add the dependency of the JUnit. And for this I'll open up the file menu. I'll go to the Project Structure settings. On this page I'll choose the modules option and click on the dependencies tab. Now let's click this plus icon to add the dependency. I'll choose a library and under the options I'll choose Maven. So in the search bar here I'll write JUnit Jupiter. And I'll search JUnit dependency. And from the recommended dependencies I'll choose this option and click okay. Click okay again. And after that I will click on the apply button. We can now click on the okay button to close the page. So as you can see now we can see the JUnit library in the project directory. Right. But we've got to create a test method. So we'll name the method test counter with multiple threads. We have to annotate this method as test. Now make sure that the test you imported comes from the JUnit Jupiter API. Now after the test annotation right here, a green play icon should have appeared. You see it indicating that this method is testable. But as you can see, it didn't appear, but probably because the J unit library that we added may not have been fully detected by our project. So if you do run into that situation, rebuilding the project will solve the problem. So now you can see the green play icon has appeared indicating that this method is testable. Now you know what it's like. I hope you didn't panic there. We can continue. So first I want to create an instance of the Threadsafe counter class. I'll also create a thread pool, including ten threads. After that, I'll call the increment method of the thread safe counter class 1000 times. Of course we'll be doing this using a for loop. But I will call the increment method using multiple threads. So I'll call the submit method of the Executorservice interface as the parameter. I will call the increment method of the thread safe counter class using the method reference. After the loop, we will tell the Executorservice that it will no longer accept new tasks, but will complete any existing tasks that are waiting in the queue. So I'll call the shutdown method of the Executorservice interface. After that, let's define a time to wait for the thread pool to close. So all tasks will be expected to complete within this time period. Now, if the specified time is up, the wait will end. Okay, we can do this using the await termination method. Now one second ought to be sufficient. Okay. And lastly we'll need to compare the expected result with a value of the counter we obtained as a result of the test and complete the test. So for this let's call the assert equals method which is a static method in the assertions class from the JUnit library. So this method takes three parameters. The first parameter is the expected value. So in other words, we expect the value of the counter variable to be 1000 as a result of the test? Yes. Yes. The second parameter is the actual value. In other words, it is the last value of the counter as a result of the test. So we'll get the actual value of the counter calling the getter method of it. B3. Third parameter. This indicates the error message to be displayed when the test result fails. All right, so that should complete the test class. Let's go ahead and start. Okay. So you don't sound so surprised do you. We pass the test successfully. So in other words, the last value of the counter is the same as the expected value 1000. So we can actually say here that the thread safety is insured. All right, let's just summarize what's happened. Unit testing. Multithreaded code involves addressing challenges like nondeterminism, race conditions and thread safety. We've got frameworks like JUnit and utilities like Reentrant Lock. They simplify testing and ensure reliable behavior. Control testing environments and mock dependencies make multithreaded unit tests deterministic and reproducible. So as a result, unit testing multithreaded code is essential for building robust concurrent applications. And when you're using tools like JUnit and careful design, you can tackle the challenges of concurrency effectively. Now, when we come back next time, we'll explore profiling multithreaded applications to identify and optimize performance bottlenecks. Yeah, I'll see you next time. Bye for now.

=== 3. Profiling multithreaded applications ===
All right, all right, all right, my friends. Hello and welcome back. Are you ready for this? Yeah, because in this video we're going to profile a multithreaded app. Of course profiling. Let me just introduce you to it first. This is a critical step in software development especially in multithreaded applications. This is where performance bottlenecks, race conditions or memory issues can be often hidden under complex interactions. So profiling allows developers to analyze their applications runtime behavior such as CPU and memory usage, thread state and synchronization overhead. Now, in multithreaded applications, profiling will actually focus on thread management. Understanding thread states their execution times, as well as identifying potential deadlocks or thread starvation. CPU usage identifying which parts of the code consume the most processing power. Memory usage, tracking, memory allocation, garbage collection behavior, as well as detecting any memory leaks. Synchronization issues, measuring the time thread spend waiting for locks or other synchronization primitives. We've got some great tools for profiling multithreaded applications. Some common ones include Java Visualvm a powerful tool for monitoring and profiling Java applications in real time. J profiler or your kit. These are advanced commercial tools with rich features for deep analysis, thread dumps and logs. Useful for manually examining thread states during execution. So, are you ready to have a look at some of the key profiling metrics? Yeah, we've got thread activity. This includes thread state running, waiting or blocked thread lifespan as well as a number of threads in the application. CPU profiling identifies hotspots, methods or code blocks consuming excessive CPU. Memory profiling. This highlights memory intensive parts of the code and garbage collector behavior. Lock contention measures the impact of synchronization on application performance. So some might just ask why does profiling matter so much? What if I'm a brilliant coder? Well, profiling I'm sure you are. First of all. But profiling not only uncovers inefficiencies, but also provides actionable insights to optimize your application. Everybody's looking to optimize, right? For example, you can reduce lock contention by redesigning synchronization mechanisms, also refactoring CPU intensive methods, and addressing memory leaks to avoid out of memory errors. Yeah, so there's a lot of theory. We'll digest it, but we're going to learn this a whole lot better as we work through an example. So we need to implement a simple multithreaded program and use Java Visualvm. And we'll analyze its performance. So here's the scenario. We're going to try to simulate a banking system where multiple threads update an account balance concurrently. The goal here is to ensure thread safety as well as analyze the synchronization overhead using profiling tools. I know you're ready. Let's take some action. First, we'll definitely need to create a new Java project. And its name is going to be Profiling Multithreaded app. So now I want to create a new Java class in this package. And the name of this class will be Bank account. Now this class will simulate a bank account with a balance that threads update concurrently. So first I will create a balance with an initial value of zero. After that I'll create a synchronized deposit method. So this method will take an amount as a parameter. And now I will add the amount to the balance and assign that to the balance. And also delay the program by about 100 milliseconds. Should do. Okay, so we need to create a synchronized withdrawal method with an amount parameter. And if the balance is greater than or equal to amount, I will subtract the amount from the balance and assign it to the balance again. Sounds familiar huh? And again the delay should be about 100 milliseconds. Okay. So lastly let's create the synchronized getter method of the balance. Now let's create the main test class. So its name is going to be Banking app. I'll add the main method. All right. So this class will create multiple threads that perform deposits and withdrawals. So first let's create an instance of the bank account class. Now I'll create a task. This task is going to deposit 100 units of money into the account and withdraw 50 units of money. And I'll do this a thousand times. Let's say. Now I'll create ten threads and each thread will perform this task. So first I'll create a thread array. Length of this array will be ten. Now using a for loop I will initialize these threads and assign its tasks. All right. So now we can start the threads. So after that I'll call the join method for all threats. And lastly, I want to print the final balance. All right. So we rapidly developed a simple thread application. Let's go ahead and test it out first. Now of course we can reduce the delay in deposit and withdrawal transactions in order to see the result fairly quickly. Okay. Let's just test it out. Now. So you see this, right? The last balance gets printed to the console and this is the expected value. So everything looks like it's working fine. But now let's see what's happening in the background how the threads work okay. So we can profile this using our Java Visualvm. And for this we'll first need to install Java Visualvm on our computer. Now previously this came ready made in JDK but now it's not in JDK. Anyway we need to download it manually from the internet. So open up a web browser and type in download Java Visualvm in the search bar. Make sure you go to the official website and you can download the version suitable for your operating system from this page. And wants to download. Process is complete. We can go ahead and install this file. I'll double click on the file and I'm dragging and dropping it to the application file. So I'm stating that I trust this application okay. Now let's run it. All right. So you can see that we've now successfully installed and opened Java Visualvm. Let's now run our application once more and watch our running application via Java Visualvm. Okay, so we'll first increase the delay times a little bit so that the program doesn't terminate so quickly. Okay. Let's go ahead and run our code. Now let's open Java Visualvm. So you notice right, our application started to appear on the left. So we'll double click on our application. And we can see that our application is being analyzed in the panel on the right. So for example we can watch the status of the threads from the threads tab. You notice the threads are usually in waiting and running states. If there is a blocked thread we would also observe it here. You can also click on the thread dump button to get a document of it, and examine it in greater detail. And you can also observe the CPU from the sampler tab. Yeah. So here you can learn how much of the CPU each method consumes and make improvements to your code accordingly. But there you have it, my friends. You've learned how to analyze your application using Java Visualvm, so multithreaded applications can exhibit complex behavior due to thread contention and non-deterministic execution. Profiling tools like Java Visualvm help visualize thread activity, identify bottlenecks, and analyze thread states. So yeah, we've been exploring the importance of profiling multithreaded applications so that we can analyze performance and identify any bottlenecks. We implemented a banking simulation to observe thread synchronization and analyzes runtime behavior using Java Visualvm. Well done. But you see how profiling revealed the key insights into the thread activity, the CPU usage, and synchronization overhead. So it definitely demonstrates to you how these kinds of tools can guide your optimization efforts. So when you master these profiling techniques, you can write more efficient and reliable multithreaded applications.
