=== 1. Section Overview ===
All right, my friends. Hello and welcome back. So what we need to do here in this section we're going to talk about collections. One of the frameworks that we use mostly in Java. And we'll also talk about the map interface. And that looks actually a whole lot like it's going to be part of collections, but it actually is entirely separate from them. So let's break it down. First up we're going to talk about what the collection framework actually is. And then we'll cover the list interface. Next up we'll learn the comparator and iterator interfaces. Next we'll learn about the set interface. Then we'll talk about queue and dequeue interfaces. And then we'll be able to finally learn about the map interface. So my friends let's do it. We're going to meet in the next video and start learning the collections.

=== 2. Introduction to Collections ===
Welcome back, my friends. So here we are in this promised video. We're going to start learning about collections. Now. A collection is simply an object that groups multiple elements into a single unit, right? So collections are used to store, retrieve, manipulate and communicate aggregate data. So typically they represent data items that form a natural group such as a poker hand. Right. And that's a collection of cards a mail folder. Let's call that a collection of letters or a telephone directory, a mapping of names to phone numbers you follow. So Java collection just means a single unit of objects. Now, remembering way back when we were talking about arrays, right? We covered arrays in our previous videos, so now we get to put them to good use thanks to arrays, we can store data, but you might be asking, well, why do we need to use collections when we're already using arrays? I'm glad you asked. The main difference between arrays and collections is size. See, arrays are fixed in size. That means that once we create an array, we cannot increase or decrease it based on our requirements, which are ever changing, I'm sure you know. So remember, when creating the array we specify how many elements it's going to consist of. And then we wouldn't be able to add any new elements to this array. So in other words the number of elements could not exceed the number that we initially specified. That's a real disadvantage. And it's pretty much the biggest disadvantage of arrays. But you see collections don't work like that. For example, when we work with array lists that implement the list interface, you're going to see that we can add as many elements as we want to our list. Yeah. So this is going to offer us a great opportunity for flexibility. All right. So thanks to some of the methods offered in the collection framework, we can easily add, delete or access our data. So the Java collection framework provides many interfaces such as set list, queue dequeue and classes such as array list, vector linked list, priority queue, hash set, linked hash set and tree set. Now all collections frameworks contain these interfaces. These are abstract data types that represent collections. Interfaces allow collections to be manipulated independently of the details of their representation in object oriented languages. Interfaces Is generally form a hierarchy. Implementations. These are the concrete implementations of the collection interface, so in essence they are reusable data structures. Algorithms. These are the methods that perform useful computations, such as searching and sorting on the objects that implement collection interfaces. So the algorithms are said to be polymorphic, and that is, the same method can be used on many different implementations of the appropriate collection interface. So in essence algorithms are a reusable functionality. Now let's have a look at the architecture of the collection interface. So check this out. Don't you love a good figure? You can see the interfaces as well as the classes available, all in the collection framework. These white boxes represent interfaces in the collection framework, while the pink boxes represent classes. All right, solid arrows show the inheritance or extending hierarchy between interfaces. While you see these dashed arrows, they show which class implements which interface. At the top of the hierarchy is the collection interface itself. The list Q, dq set and sorted set are core collection interfaces. So far so good, right? Now let's just break down these core interfaces a little bit more. Collection. The root of the collection hierarchy. Okay. A collection represents a group of objects known as its elements. The collection interface is the least common denominator that all collections implement. and it's used to pass collections around and manipulate them when maximum generality is desired. Some types of collections allow duplicate elements, others do not, and some are ordered and others are unordered. Okay, set. This is a collection that cannot contain duplicate elements, so this interface models the mathematical set abstraction, and it's used to represent sets such as the cards comprising a poker hand, the courses making up a student's schedule, or the processes running on a machine. List is an ordered collection. Sometimes it's called a sequence, but you got to remember that list is an ordered collection, so lists can actually contain duplicate elements. The user list generally has precise control over where in the list each element is inserted, and can access elements by their integer index, otherwise known as position. So what's a queue? A queue is a collection used to hold multiple elements prior to processing. Now, besides basic collection operations, a queue actually provides additional insertion, extraction and inspection operations. Queues typically, but actually not necessarily order elements in a Fifo first in first out manner. Among the exceptions are priority queues, which order elements according to a supplied comparator or the element's natural ordering. The point is, whatever the ordering that's being used, the head of the queue is the element that would be removed by a call to remove or poll. In a Fifo queue. In other words, all new elements are inserted at the tail of the cube. Now other kinds of cubes may use different placement rules. Of course, every Q implementation must specify its ordering properties. Don't worry, it'll be clear once we get into its usage. DQ. A collection used to hold multiple elements prior to processing. Besides basic collection operations, a DQ provides additional insertion, extraction, and inspection operations, and DQ can be used both as Fifo first in, first out and LIFO last in, first out. In a DQ, all new elements can be inserted, retrieved and removed at both ends. For you history buffs out there. Yeah, DQ is actually a reduction of the word. Double Q. Okay, now it's time to look at the benefits of the Java Collections Framework. AWK. Java Collections Framework provides some great benefits. Reduces programming effort by providing useful data structures and algorithms. The collections framework frees you to concentrate on the important parts of your program, rather than on the lower level plumbing, so to speak, required to make it work by facilitating interoperability among unrelated APIs. The Java Collections Framework frees you from writing adapter objects or conversion code to connect APIs. Increases program speed and quality, so the collections framework provides high performance, high quality implementations of useful data structures and algorithms. The various implementations of each interface are interchangeable, so programs can be easily tuned by switching collection implementations. Because you're freed from the drudgery of writing your own data structures, you're going to have more time to devote to improving program's quality and performance allows interoperability among unrelated APIs. The collection interfaces are the vernacular by which APIs pass collections back and forth. So if my network administration API furnishes a collection of node names, and if your GUI toolkit expects a collection of column headings, well, our APIs will interoperate seamlessly even though they were written independently. Check this out. It reduces effort to learn and use new APIs. See many APIs naturally take collections on input and furnish them as output in the past. Each such API had a small sub API devoted to manipulating its collections. As you might imagine, there was little consistency among these ad hoc collection sub APIs, so you had to learn each one from scratch. And it was very easy to make mistakes when using them. But with the advent of standard collection interfaces, that problem went away. Didn't even exist. You didn't hear it from me anyway. It also reduces effort to design new APIs. So this is the flip side of the previous advantage. Designers and implementers don't have to reinvent the wheel each time they create an API that relies on collections. Instead, you see they can use standard collection interfaces. It also fosters software reuse. New data structures that conform to the standard collection interfaces are, by nature, reusable. The same goes for new algorithms that operate on objects that implement these interfaces. Yeah. So my friends, why don't we just take a short break here and digest the Java collection framework information a little bit? Why don't we come back in the next video though? We are going to continue and we're going to get into the list interface. See you next video.

=== 3. List Interface ===
Oh, there you are. Fantastic. So, my friends. Hello. Now, in this video we're going to talk about this list interface. So why don't we just get to it. First of all, the list interface in Java provides a way to store the ordered collection. So it's a child interface of collection. It's an ordered collection of objects in which duplicate values can be stored. All right. So since list preserves the insertion order, it's going to allow positional access as well as insertion of elements. So you can actually think of the list interface as slightly more advanced version of the arrays that we talked about earlier. Makes sense. So let's get into the nitty gritty. The list interface is found in the Java.util package and it inherits the collection interface. Now the Java platform contains two general purpose list implementations. ArrayList, which is usually the better performing implementation, and the linked list which actually offers better performance under certain circumstances. So let's have a look at the declaration of a list. Since list is an interface, we cannot create an object directly from the list interface. We always need a class that implements the list to create an object. So we're going to use the ArrayList class whenever we're instantiating a list. So the declaration of a list is kind of like creating an object from a regular class C. First we specify the collection type that is list array, list, set or map, and in this example is going to be a list. Then we must specify which data type. The list we will create inside the diamond symbol will be. The list in our example is of the type Object, then we need to specify the name of the list that we'll create. And then after the equal sign, we can create an object from the ArrayList class using the new keyword. Of course, I wonder if you're noticing here there's also a diamond symbol on the right side of the equal sign and it says object in between. All right. Finally there is a constructor parenthesis. Let me explain. For Java seven and later it's actually no longer necessary to specify the data type inside the diamond symbol after the equal sign. But if you do have to specify, you're not going to get any errors. All right. Let's have a look at some of the useful methods of this list interface shall we. Let's have a look at the add method because we use it to add elements into the list. So there is an add method with a couple of different parameters. The first takes only the element name as a parameter, while the other takes the index number and the element name together. Okay, so if we don't specify an index number, it's going to add it to the end of the list. If we do specify an index number, well of course it adds that element to the index number that we specified. And of course if there is an element already in the index it shifts it over to the right. Welcome to the remove method. And the remove method is used to delete elements from the list. This method has two different uses actually. First, you give the index number and that deletes the element in that index. Or if you give the name of the element you want to delete, it deletes that element. The set method gets used to change an element in the list, so it takes two parameters. The first is the index number of the element to be changed. And the second one is the new value of the element. Here we have the contains method. So this is going to check to see if an element is in that array. It returns true if it is and false otherwise. And here we have the is empty method. In this check. See if the list is empty. Returns true if it's empty. False if it's not. The clear method deletes all of the elements in the list at once. And the size method just returns the size of the list. All right. So there's a whole lot of information about the list interface. Why don't we get to some practice. So first up let's create a new project. And we're going to name this project collections. Other options will be the same as the previous projects. So without changing anything I'll just click the create button. So now I'll create a new package in class in this project. Well, just make the package name collections. But the class name B list examples. Alrighty, so we are ready to create a list and I'll write list. And as you can see, the list is an interface and it is under the Java.util package. And in fact all collections are in the Java.util package. So to use a collection that means we'll need to import the Java.util package. So I'll select this option and press enter. And there you see it's imported. Now also you could put a star instead of the list interface. So that way all collections will be imported. But for now we'll continue. So inside the diamond. We need to write the data type of this list. So this can be the type of string. And I will now need to name the object that will create. So the name of this list will be list one. Right after the equal sign I'll write new ArrayList. And of course you can write the data type of this array inside the diamond again. Or you can leave it empty. And lastly put the constructor in parentheses. All right. So that is list declaration. I want you to just review a couple of things here. List is an interface. In order to use it we used the ArrayList class which implements the list interface. In fact, in our upcoming lessons, what we're going to do is create objects directly using the ArrayList class. However, when we do want to use the list interface, we can create objects the way we did, because you remember the hierarchy diagram of the collection framework. Since the ArrayList implements the list, you can create an object this way. Also, this was called polymorphism, remember? So why don't we click the control key on the keyboard and open up the list interface and have a look what's under the hood. All right. So you see here it's an interface. And it extends the collections interface. And you can see a bunch of the methods of this interface. Let's move on. Now I wonder if you noticed we declared an instantiated the list in a line. If we want to we can first declare it and then instantiate it. So for example that would look like list type can be integer this time List two and a semicolon. And in the next line I'll instantiate it. List two equals new ArrayList. So this is also valid right? So let's create another list. List. Double list three. And of course we should use the wrapper classes not primitive. For example let's delete this double and write double instead. Right. That's the lower case. And as you can see we get a compilation error. So we cannot use the primitive in collections right. That's an important thing to remember. While we can use primitive types in the arrays that we were talking about way earlier. We can only use wrapper classes in collections. All right. Let's go ahead and create another list collection. And I'll select the collection interface in the Java.util package type will be integer. So this is also valid. And that's because the collection interface is the root interface. And the list interface extends the collection interface. And the ArrayList implements the list interface. So the ArrayList is a subclass of the list and collections. All right. So my friends, I want to show you one other thing before we go. Let's create another list. List. List five new ArrayList. All right. So you see here. This time I'm not going to use that diamond symbol in data type. But you see this is also valid. But this time the compiler accepts it as raw. Yeah. So if you move the cursor over the list it says list is a raw type. References to generic type list should be parameterized. So if you leave it like that, the type of this array is object by default, and you can add a string, integer, double or any type to this array. Don't forget that. So for example, let's add a string element list five dot add and we'll let the element be. Hello Java developers! Now let's try to assign this element to a string object. String message equals to access an element of a list. We can just use the get method. So after the equals sign I'll write list five dot get. So this get method takes the index number. Since there is only one element in the list, I'll write zero. So the Hello Java developers element is in the zeroth index. But if you've been paying attention, the compiler throws an error. And let's have a look at the reason for the mistake. Okay check it out. We're getting a type mismatch error. So in other words even though the element we created is of the string type, since we did not specify the type of our list at the very beginning, it's perceived as an object type, and a direct conversion from object to string cannot be performed here. We need to do a casting operation, in other words. So this is one way to remove the error. However, to avoid dealing with casting operations, it really would be more appropriate to define the type of our list within the diamond symbol at the very beginning. So I am making the type of this list string. All right. So now we can delete that casting process here. Because now the type of our list is string. And it can only store string elements. All right. So I was compelled to show you that. But you can see here that we're focusing more on declaring and instantiating our lists. There's many more useful methods of the list interface through the ArrayList class, but that's coming up in the next video. So why don't we take a short break and I'll see you in the next video.

=== 4. ArrayList Class ===
All right, all right. Hello my friends. So previously we talked about that list interface. We also covered how to declare a list and what to pay attention to during the declaration phase. So that means in this video we're going to try to make some applications using the ArrayList class which implements the list interface. Now I'm sure you remember we talked about some methods of list interface in our previous video. And these methods can always be used in the ArrayList class. So right now we're going to learn how to practically use the methods we talked about in the previous video. So why don't we just stop talking and get to it. All right. So first we'll create a new class. I'll right click on the collections package and select the new class option. Let the class name be ArrayList. Examples. So now I want to create an array list. The type of this list will be integer. And the name can be ages. All right. Equals new array list. All right. Since the type of this list is integer, well we can only store integers. So to add an element to the array list we'll use the add method. So I'll write ages dot add inside parentheses. I'll write the name of the element that I want to add into this list. So the first element can be 20. Now let's add another element. Ages. Dot. Add. We'll let the second element be 25. Now let's add another element. Ages dot. Add. the third element b30. Okay, now let's print the elements of this array list S out ages. So if you remember when we were working with the array, if we want to print the elements of the array, we use the method arrays.tostring. If we actually wrote the name of the array, we would only see the id of the array, not the elements. You remember that. However, the array list class has its own toString method. So if we write the name of the array list, it prints the elements on the console. All right, let's run the code and watch it. So here you see all the elements get printed onto the console. And I'm sure you noticed since we did not specify any index number while adding the elements, the elements are added to the list in order. Yes. Let's now create an object list. Array. List. Object. And the name can be mixed list equals new array list. Okay, since the type of this list is object, we can store int, string, double, etc.. So to add an element to the array list we'll just use the add method again. So I'll write mix list dot add inside parentheses I'll write the name of the element which I want to add to the list. So let the first element be string Java. Now let's add another element. The second element be type integer ten. And let's add the third element. And the third element will be boolean true. So these three elements are going to be enough for us. Now let's print the elements of this array list s out mix list. Now let's run the code and see what happens. Okay, so as you can see, all the elements are printed on the console. I just think that specifying the element of a list is pretty clear now. So what we'll need to do is create another array list array list string animals equals new array list. Let's add some elements to the list animals dot add double quotes. Lion. We need another elements over the second element. Animals dot add cat. And let's add another element. Animals dot add This time I want to use an index number while adding the element. Currently this array is two elements, so I'll want to add it as a third element. The index number of the third element is two. Right. So the first parameter will be two. The second parameter is the element that I want to add. That's why I'll write dog. Let's add another element with an index number. Animals dot add. This time the index number will be one and the element will be cow. Okay, so there is the cat element at index one. So if we add another element to index one. In this case it adds the element that we want to add to index number one and shifts the index number the old elements one digit over to the right. So that means our list would now look like this. Lion cow cat dog. Let's print it to the console. All right. We're going to run this and observe. So you see the first element is lion the second cow the third is cat. The last element is dog. So the add method with index number is very similar to the insert method of the string. That's just something to remember. All right. So that's the add method in the ArrayList. Why don't we now have a look at deleting an element from the ArrayList and see how that works. So to delete an element we just use the remove method of the ArrayList. So let's go ahead and remove an element of the animals list animals dot remove. Now you can see here there are two remove methods. The first one takes the object or element name and the other method takes the index number of the element that we want to delete. So first I'll just use the index number. So I'll delete the element at index two. All right two in parentheses. C so in this case it's going to delete the cat because the index number of the cat is two. So let's print the last version of the list. Okay. So we can run the code and observe it. And there you see the cat is removed from the list. And the element after the cat gets shifted to the left. So the new element at index two is now dog. All right, all right. Now let's remove another element using the element name. Animals dot remove. This time I will remove the lion. So in parentheses I'll write lion. This time the first element will be cow. The second element will be dog and we'll print that to the console. So run it and check it out. There you see, the line is now removed from the list. And the new list with the two elements is what you see on the console. All right. So that's the remove method of the ArrayList. We can also alter any element of the array list with a set method of the ArrayList class. So why don't we see how that works? We'll change the dog to ant. All right so I'll write animals dot set. And the set method takes two parameters. The first one will be the index number of the element we want to alter okay. So the second parameter is the new value of that element. So the index number of the dog is one. The new value will be ant. Let's print the elements to the console. And we can run it and see. There you see new element is ant. It is no longer dog. Why don't we now create an ArrayList with a type string ArrayList string cars equals new ArrayList. And first I want to print the size of this ArrayList. So s out cast size. Let's run that and see what happens. As you can see, what's printed out zero. Because currently the car list is empty. Now if we were to use the Isempty method should return true. So let's try. That's out. Cars. Dot is empty. Run it. So now you see the size is zero. And since it is empty, it prints. True. All right, so why don't we add some elements into this list? Cars dot add Mercedes. Cars dot. Add Ferrari. Cars dot. Add BMW. Cars dot. Add Ford. Okay, now let's print the size of the array and check it with the Isempty empty method. So what I'll do is I'll copy and paste these print methods. And now we can run it and observe what happens. So there you see. Now the size of the cars list is four. And since it is not empty. The Isempty method returned. False. Now let's check out the contains method. All right. So with it contains method we can find out if the element we're searching for is actually in the list. So it's going to return true if there is such an element. If not it'll return false. Let's see how it works. S out cars dot contains opal fine German automobile. So this will return false because, well, the opal is not an element of the cars list. Let's search for another element. Shoutcast contains BMW. So this is obviously going to return true because the BMW is an element of this list. Let's run it and make sure. And there you see the first result is false and the second is true. Now there is another method that will want to use here in practice. And let's use the clear method of the ArrayList class. So the clear method actually deletes all elements of the list at once. So I can just write cars dot clear and let's call the size and is empty methods respectively. So now let's run it and see what happens. There you see the clear method works. and it actually deleted all the elements from the list as expected. And since the cars list is empty now, its size is zero and the Isempty method returns true. Now let's see. Why don't we have a look at the equals method of the ArrayList class? Now I'm sure you remember we used the equals method for strings, wrapper classes and arrays. Let's see what it looks like being used in the ArrayList. So the equals method of the ArrayList compares the elements in the list in order. It returns true if the contents of the elements are the same. Otherwise it's going to return false. Let's just make an example. So I'll create an ArrayList ArrayList string names new ArrayList. Let's add three elements to this list. Names dot add David. Names. Add Andy. Names. Add Clark. And let's just create another list. Array. List. Object. Names two. New ArrayList. Let's add the same elements to this list. So I'll just copy and paste these elements. So the name of the list will be names two. And let's compare them with the equals method. S out names dot equals names two. Now before you go running the app let's talk about the expected output. The equals method compares the elements of the lists in order. Right. So let's have a look at the first element. The first element is David for both lists. The second element is Andy for both lists. Again the last element is Clark also for both lists. So that means all three elements are the same. Now for this reason the result will be true. Yes. Notice though, that I purposely created the data types of these lists a little differently. The first is string, the second is object. However, the equals method is going to return true because the elements are the same. Follow. Well, let's run the code and see the output. So the result is true. So now I want to change the order of the elements for the second list. So the first element will be Clark and the last element will be David. Okay. So this time it's going to return false because the equals method compares the elements in order. So first it looks at the first element in each list. If they are the same well this time it looks at the second element. And if it's not it returns false. All right. So this time the first elements are not the same. So the output should be false. Let's run it and see. And yeah there you go. It's false. Okay one last thing. Let's show another thing about initializing a list. So here I'm going to write array list integer. My list one equals. After the equal sign I'll put open curly braces and try to add some elements. Check out the compilation error. And that's just because we cannot initialize the array list like the array. You gotta remember that one too. Okay, so we've done some. Well, we've actually done a variety of examples with some very useful methods of list. All right. So I know you're going to be using that in videos to come and also in your Java development career. So we're going to have to sit down though and have a real conversation about conversion between arrays and array lists. When you're ready for that, check out the next video. But don't lose any sleep over it. I'll see you then.

=== 5. Conversion Between Lists and Arrays ===
All right, my friends. Previously, we did a few examples of the operations that we can perform on lists using the ArrayList class. That means it's time for this video, where we're going to talk about how to convert between lists in arrays. What we'll do is talk about what we need to pay attention to when we're making this transformation. It's not that it's tricky, but you just have to be thorough. A couple of things I want to tell you first, before we convert from list to arrays, when you're converting an existing list to an array, we generally use the to array method, and that belongs to the list interface. There's a couple of different types of the two array methods. One is without a parameter, the other is with a parameter, and it takes an array as a parameter. So for example, list represents our array list and the array represents our array. So to convert the array list to an array, we just use the list dot to array method. Or you can create a new array. And you can pass this array as a parameter to the to array method. So that's how to convert from a list to an array. Let's have a look at the conversion from an array to a list. To convert an array to a list, we just use the as list method of the arrays class or the add all method of the collections class. First we'll have a look at the as list method. It takes an array as a parameter, but the add all method takes two parameters. So the first one is the name of the list and the other one is the name of the array. All right. So that's what it sounds like. Let's do some practice. So here I want to create a new class in the collections package. And let's name this class conversion between list array. So I'm going to convert a list to an array first. So why don't we create an array list. List. String. Animals. List. Equals new array list. So now we can add some elements to this list. Animals list dot. Add. Cat. Animals. List. Dot add dog. Animals list. Dot add cow. Animals list. Dot. Add lion. All right. Now let's convert this list to an array. Before we go and use the ready made method. I just want to see if I can convert this list to an array using the for loop. So first I'll create an array. String. Square bracket. Animals. Array. Equals new string square brackets. So here I need to specify the length of the array. So I'll write right. Animal's list size in the square brackets. So what I said was I want to create a for loop. So here we go. For int I equals zero the condition will be I less than animals list dot size. And the update statement will be I plus plus. In the for loop I right animals array square brackets I. And after the equals sign I'll right animals list dot get. Now it's thanks to this get method we can actually get the elements of a list, which is the specific index. So in parentheses I'll write I small letter I. The small letter I represents the index of the list and array. Now in each iteration the elements of the list will be assigned to the array respectively. Follow. All right. So now that the conversion is ready, let's print the elements of the list and the array. S out double quotes animals list equals animals list. S out. Double quote. Animals array equals arrays. Dot to string. Animals array. Let's run it and see what it looks like. So my friends you can see the output is the same. So actually we can make the conversion without using a ready made method. But yeah, the ready made methods always allow us to do our job just a little bit faster. But now you know what's going on. So let's just try to do this using the two array method. So I'll convert these lines to comment lines. And first I will use the two array method without any parameters. All right animals list dot two array. Okay. So as you can see this method returns the object array. So we have to assign the new array to an array. So at the beginning of the code I'll write object square brackets animals array equals. And that makes that conversion ready. So yeah, we quickly converted the list to an array using the two array method. So we can just run it and see the result. So there you see the elements of the list and the array are printed on the console. So that means the conversion successful. Now let's use the two array method with a parameter. So first I will convert this line to a comment line. Now I'll create an array. String square brackets. Animals. Array equals new string square brackets. And we have to write the size of this array. So you can write the size of the list. Or you can just put a zero. But the point you do need to pay attention to is this. The size you write here must not be larger than the size of the list. Otherwise, non-correlated elements are converted to null. So, for example, currently the size of the list is four. So if we were to type five here, that fifth element will be printed as null. But if you write zero, one, two, 3 or 4 here, the output will be the same. But I'm just showing you the correct usage would be to write the size of the list. So animals list dot size okay. And we'll continue for the next line I'll write animals array equals animals list dot to array. Animals array. That's the conversion. Ready. Now let's run the code and have a look at the output. So yeah the output is the same. But you can also write it in one line. Inside the parenthesis you can use the new keyword. So I'll convert this line to comment and I'll copy the part after the equals sign. Paste it inside the parentheses. Also this will be a string array. Yeah. So that's a valid way to go. And you can use this syntax. Now let's run it and have a look. There you see the output is the same. Now also after the conversion you can add many more elements to the list. But we cannot add an element to the array. Right. Because the size of the array is fixed not changed. So for example let's go ahead and add the fifth element to the list. List dot add and. Let's run it one more time. And there you see the new element is added to the list. All right. So that's how you do a conversion from a list to an array. Let's look at the other way around. Conversion from an array to a list. So I want to create a car array. String square brackets. Car array equals new string square brackets. And then inside curly braces I want to create the elements. The first element is Ferrari. The second is Mercedes. The third is BMW and the last is Ford. Okay, so the array is ready. Now also we can create an array using curly braces. Now let's convert this array to an array list. Here I will use the as list method of the arrays class and so I'll write list string car list. Equals res dot as list. Now for the parameter I'll write the array name that is cars array. And let's go ahead and print the elements of the array and array list S out. Double quotes cars array equals Arrays.tostring cars array. S out. Double quotes. Cars list equals cars list. And let's run that and see. There you go. The conversion successful. Also, if you use the array list instead of the list, this time you should assign the arrays dot as list method as the constructor parameter of the array list. So let's see what that looks like when you change it. And I'll copy and paste this line. I'll convert the first line to the comment line. This will now be array list. And after the equal sign I'll write new array list in parentheses I'll write Arrays.aslist cars array. So you see this usage is also valid. Let's run it and you'll see. Yeah there the output is the same. Now what do you say we use the add all method of the collections class to convert an array to a list. So I'll first convert this line to comment line. And now I'll create an array list. Array list. String cars list equals new array list. And in the next line I'll write collections dot add all. The add all method takes two parameters. The first is the name of the list. So the cars list and the second parameter is the array. So the cars array okay. So now let's run it and observe. So there you see the output is the same. I wonder do you remember all the way back to the beginning of this video? We converted the list to an array with a for loop without using a ready made method. Well, why don't we try? This time we'll convert the array to a list by using that for loop again. Now, if you want to try it like this, let's use the for each loop. So first I'll just convert the add all method to a comment line. And let's now create the for each loop. So for string car colon car is array. And in the loop I'll write cars list dot add car. This way in each iteration the elements of the cars array will be added to the cars list. So let's run it and see. There you go. The output is the same. Also, if we want to, we could add an element to the array list after the conversion. So let's add another car to the list. Yeah Castlist dot add Opal. And let's run that. And there you see, the opal is now added to the list. So far, so good, right? There is a small detail that we do need to pay attention to while we're doing this. If we do the conversion using the as list method, we can no longer add a new element to the list because these will now be linked arrays and we can't add any elements since the arrays are fixed in size, right? So let me just show you with an example. First of all, we'll just convert the for loop to a comment line. And let's also activate the as list method. And I'll also convert this line to the comment line. Yeah. So currently the conversion process is done with the as list method. And if you pay close attention after the conversion process we are trying to add the opal element to the list. Let's see how if we are successful. So as you can see, we are getting the unsupported operation exception error. And that's because we've done the conversion using the Aslist method and adding a new element is no longer allowed. So what happens if we alter any element. So let's say for example let's alter the second element of the array. Hyundai. Hyundai rhymes with Sunday. Now cars. Array. Square brackets one equals double quotes. Hyundai. And let's observe the output. And as you can see the second element of the array and the array list is now changed. Is the reversed also true. Yes. So if we change the second element of the array list, both will be changed. So for example, let's change the third element of the array list to Honda cars list dot set. The parameters will be two and Honda. And let's run it and test it once more. So there you see the third element of the array and the array list have now changed. Now as a result, if we do the conversion using the as list method, we can no longer add elements to the array or delete any element of the array. If we do change an element this time, the change is applied to both. Okay, something to remember. All right. That's converting between lists and arrays. So we'll take a short break here. See you in the next video.

=== 6. Sorting Array List ===
Well, here we are, my friends. Hello. And we've done a bunch of examples of arraylists. So in this video we're going to learn how to sort the elements in an array list from smallest to largest. Now hopefully you remember we learned how to sort arrays in the array section. But in fact, the logic behind sorting the elements of an array list from smallest to largest is the same. You bet. The only difference is the method that's used is different. So why don't we just have a look? See how this process works in array lists. And we'll do this example that you see. So here we have a list called numbers list whose elements are integers. And I wonder if you notice the elements of this numbers list are not sequential. So if we use the sort method of the collections class, we can actually sort the elements of this list simply and quickly from smallest to largest. Now why don't we just do some practice. So first up I want to create a new Java class called sorting ArrayList. That's going to be in the collections package. Now let's make some examples for data types one at a time. So let's start with a double data type. And we can create an ArrayList of the type double. So we'll let the name of the list be list one. Now let's just add some elements to the list. First element will be 2.3. The second 11.0. The third element 4.6. And the fourth element -3.6. The fifth element is 0.8. And the last element shall be 12. Yeah. So why don't we just print the element of this list to the console? That's out. Double quotes. Unsorted list. Plus list one. Also, we got to add a title for this operation. Now let's sort the elements of this list using the sort method of the collections class. So it's here that I want to write collections.sort. And the sort method takes a list. So in parentheses I'll write list one. And we'll add the elements of this list onto the console. I'll copy this print method and paste it under sorting. So this statement will be sorted list. Okay let's run the code and observe the output. Yeah. So you can see the elements are sorted in ascending order. Now let's have a look at the sorting of the integer list. So I want to copy these lines and paste them in here. I'll also make some changes. The title will be Sorting Integer list. And the type of the list will be, you guessed it, integer. Now we're going to make its name be list two. And now let's specify the elements of the list that the elements of the list be one, three, minus five. Ten. Two and nine. So I'll change these lists to list two. So to sort an integer list we use a sort method of the collections class again. Great. So now we can test it out. So you can see now the elements are sorted in ascending order again. And that's how you sort by numerical type. I do want to show you something else. We'll try to sort the elements of a character list. So let me just copy and paste these lines again. And the tag of this list will be character. The name of the list can be list three. Now let's specify its elements. They can be uppercase letter F. Uppercase letter B. Lowercase letter b. Uppercase letter h. Lowercase letter c and uppercase letter a. And again we can use the sort method. Let's just run the code and observe what happens. Yeah. You notice that it sorts the uppercase letters first then the lowercase letters. Excellent observation. Now this is because if you remember correctly, the Ascii table uppercase letters get sorted first, then lowercase letters. So for example the value of uppercase B is 66 while the value of lowercase b is 98. Okay, let's now have a look at the sorting of the string list. So again I'll copy and paste these lines. The type of this list will be string. The name of the list. This can be list four. And now let's specify its elements. Well, let the first element be cat. The first letter of this element will be lowercase c. The second is dog. The third is monkey. The fourth is lion. The fifth is elephant. So the first letter of this element is going to be lowercase as well. And the last element will be cow. And let's sort it. And let's observe. C this time the elements of the list are sorted in alphabetical order. Alphabetical order is taken into account when sorting strings, but as you can see, the cat and the elephant are the last two elements because they begin with a lowercase letter and always the lowercase letters come after the uppercase letters in sorting. All right, so why don't we just take a look at what the ordering would be if each element was represented by numbers. So I'll just copy and paste these codes. And the title can be sorting string list two. And I'll change the name of the list to list five. So now I want to specify its elements. And we'll let the first element be three. The second will be 300. The third will be 20. The fourth will be 35. The fifth will be 37. And the sixth will be 31. So I'll add two more elements. For the seventh. Let's make it four. And the last element. Let's make it 70. Okay. Now before we go running the project, let's guess the output. Now you notice here, right. The elements are numbers, not letters. So this is how the logic is going to go. The Java virtual machine. The JVM looks at the first digits of all the elements starting from the left first. So three for the first element, three again for the second element, two for the third element. Three for the fourth element, three again for the fifth element, and one more three for the sixth element, and of course four for the seventh element and seven for the last element. You follow. So now the JVM will first sort these elements from smallest to largest. So in this case the first element will be two. That is 20. The second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth elements all start with three. The seventh element will be four and the last element will start with seven. So it will be 70 of course, of course. Now if we look at the numbers that start with three, since they start with the same number from the left, in this case it looks at the second number from the left. And since this element is a single digit, it has no equivalent in the second digit. The second element will be three. And for other elements it continues to look at the second digit. So when you sort the numbers in the second digit among themselves, the smallest will be zero, then one, then five, and last up seven. So the third element will be 300, the fourth will be 31, the fifth will be 35. The sixth will be 37. All right. Let's run it now and have a look. Well there you see the elements of the sorted list are 20, then three, then 300, then 31, then 35, then 37, then four, and then the last element 70. So you see here, as a result, the elements of the string type list consist of numerical values. Their sorting is done according to this logic. So let's build on this. Let's take this one step further. Let's add two more elements to the list. And the first one will be ant with lowercase letters and the other will be zebra. So now I want to guess the output again with you. If the string list contains letters and numbers, this time the letters will be sorted after the numbers and the rule is first uppercase letters, then lowercase letters, right? So that means the ninth element should be zebra. And then the last element has got to be ant. You follow. So why don't we run it and observe the output. Booyah. There you go. The ninth element is zebra. And the last element is ant. So that my friends elements of a list how to sort them. Why don't we take a short break here and come back for another video next time? See you then.

=== 7. Comparator ===
All right, all right. Hello my friends. Welcome back. So in the previous video, we used the sort method of the collections class in order to sort the elements in a list from smallest to largest or alphabetically. So in this video we're going to talk about the comparator interface. And this is going to allow us to sort lists from largest to smallest or to sort them differently. So why don't we get into it the comparator interface. So I'm going to create a new class called comparator example in the collections package. And here I will create an ArrayList. So array list. The type of this list will be character and its name will be chars List. Equals new ArrayList. Now I want to add some elements to this list. Chars list dot add lowercase b. Then I'll copy this line and paste it below five times. The second element is uppercase Z. Third element uppercase A. Fourth element is again uppercase Z. The fifth element is lowercase d. The last element. How about uppercase f? All right. Now I want to call the Collections.sort method. And as you can see here there are two types of sort methods. Right. So we have already used the first one. Let's have a look at the other one. Now you notice here the first parameter of this method is a list. So here we can actually write the name of our list again. So I'll write right. Charge list. Second parameter is the comparator. So now let's create this parameter. And I will create a new class just outside the scope of this class. All right. So class my chars. And this class will implement the comparator interface. So I'll write implement comparator. Now also its type will be character because the data that we want to compare right is character. So in other words whatever the type of your list is you must specify that type here as well. All right. Now we're getting a compilation error. Not to worry because there's a method that we should implement. So all I need to do is hover over the class name and select the add unimplemented methods for the option. All right. So the compare method is overridden. But you got to notice that this method has two parameters of the type character. Now of course, the reason why this is character is that we specify the character classes type here. So the compare method compares two elements and returns a positive value. If the first element o1 is greater than the second element o2. This means ordering the elements from smallest to largest if less than. It returns a negative value, and this means ordering them from largest to smallest. Okay, so therefore we will create an if else statement. If O1 is greater than O2. Return one. Else if O1 is less than O2. Return minus one. Else return zero. Okay, so now we've got our class ready. Let's just call this class as a second parameter of the sort method. So as the second parameter I'll write new my chars. And now we can print the elements on the console. Now the elements will be sorted ascending. Let's run the code and see. And there you can see it is sorted by ascending. All right. Why don't we sort the elements of this list from largest to smallest? Now, if we change the condition in the if else statement we created in the compare method. So that means if the first condition is zero, one is less than oh two, and the second condition is oh one is greater than oh two. Then yeah, we're going to get our order from largest to smallest, right. Well let's run it and test it out. There you go, my friend. The elements are sorted from largest to smallest. So sure enough, we can use the compare interface like this for ascending and descending sorts. In addition to that, though, the compare interface offers a possibility to sort by different data. So for example, let's say you want to sort car information such as car name, year, price of the cars by year or price. You can still use a compare interface for this process. What are you doing sitting there? And let's do it. So we need to convert these codes to the comment line. Now I'll create a new class in the collections package and we'll name the class cars. And this class will be our model class. So in this class I will create three instance variables that represent the car's name, year, and price. String. Car name. Int year. Int price. Now lets create the constructor of this class. And yeah we can do that easily right. All right so now you see we've created the constructor. Let's go ahead and create the getter methods. Yeah. So see, the model class is ready now so we can move on to the main method. In the main method I want to create a new ArrayList that holds the information of the cars. So the type of this list will be cars. Because in this list we will store the information of the cars, right? The object of the cars class. The name of this list can be Castlist. Now, after the equals sign, I'll write new ArrayList. And now let's add some cars to the list. Cars list dot. Add new cars. And now I'll need to write the constructor parameters. So the first car Mercedes. And let's make the year 2020. And we'll make the price 10,000. So I'll copy this line and paste it below four times. And then I'll change the name of the second car. That'll be BMW. And the year will be 2018. The price will be 12,000. And the name of the third car will be Ferrari. Let's make the year 2025 and the price will be 20,000. I can dream. And the name of the fourth car will be Ford. And the year will be 2024. The price will be 15,000. And the name of the last car. Make it Opel. The year 2020. And the price will be 18,000. All right, now I'll create a comparator instance comparator. The type will be cars. Name of the reference can be comparator. After the equal sign I'll write comparator dot comparing. The comparing method is the static method of the comparator interface. So we can just access it directly. And now we'll write in the parentheses according to which data we want to sort. Right. So for example let's sort by year first. So here I write cars double colon get year in parentheses. Then in the next line I'm going to call the sort method of the collections class again. The first parameter will be the cars list. The second parameter will be the comparator object. And lastly let's go ahead and print the information of the cars on the console using the for each loop. For cars car colon cars list. In the loop I'll write s out double quotes car plus car dot get car name. After the plus sign double quotes again year plus car dot get year. Then lastly double quotes. Price. Plus card dot get price. Also, before the year in the price, I'll put a backslash t. So this is an escape character in Java. It actually leaves a tab of space. So the output will look much better on the console screen you'll see. All right. So now that everything's ready we can go ahead and run the code and see what happens. Hey, look at that. The information is ordered according to year. Now we can order them according to the price. So for this, I'll just change the get year parameter to the get price parameter. Let's run that and this time the information is sorted according to the price. Good job my friends. That is how the comparator interface in Java works. So why don't we take a short break and we'll come back in the next video. All right. I'll see you then.

=== 9. Itrator and ListIterator ===
All right. Hello my friends. So in the previous videos, we've learned all about sorting and searching lists. So in this video, I think it's time to talk about the iterator and the list iterator in Java. So then what's the iterator in Java? Well, I'll tell you in Java an iterator is one of the Java cursors. So Java iterator is an interface whose purpose is to iterate over a collection of Java object components in their entirety, one by one. So it's actually used to iterate or traverse or retrieve a collection or stream objects elements one at a time. And it belongs to the Java.util package. So iterators in Java are used in the collection framework to retrieve elements one by one. It's a universal iterator because we can actually apply it to any collection object. So by using the iterator we can perform read and remove operations. Iterator must be used whenever we want to enumerate elements in all collection framework. Implemented interfaces. Okay. So the iterator is the only cursor available for the entire collection framework. So why don't we have a look at the syntax here. So you can see the syntax of the iterator. And the iterator object can be created by calling the iterator method present in the collection interface. So here numbers is a collection object. The iterator object is of the type iterator interface and it refers to the numbers list. All right. So instead of the numbers you can always use any collection object. Now we use some methods of the iterator interface actually when we were working with iterator earlier, but there were actually three methods of the iterator. Let's have a look. First method is the Hasnext method, and this method returns true if the iterator can move through the list. That is, the end of the list has not been reached yet, and there's an element to iterate over. So the cursor is at the last element and there are no more elements to go, then it's going to return false. The second method is the next method. This method returns the next element in the iteration. The third method is the remove method. And yeah, this method removes the next element in the iteration. So this method can be called only once by the way per call to the next method. I want you to notice though that the iterator only moves in one direction. That is, it starts from the very first element and moves to the end of the list. There's no backwards movement here. This is where the list iterator comes into play because. List iterator has a couple of tricks up its sleeves. It has methods called has previous and previous in addition to these other methods of course. So this way we can move forward or backward in the list using list iterator. So the list iterator is an improved version of the iterator that we used in the list. Okay, now let's have a look at the methods of the list iterator. So the Hasnext next and remove methods work just like the iterator like we went over. So this other method is the has previous. So this method returns true if the iterator can move through the list. That is, the beginning of the list has not been reached yet, and there is an element to iterate over if the cursor is at the first element and there are no more elements to go. Then it's going to return false. Another method is the previous method, and this method returns the previous element in the iteration. And of course another method would be the previous index. This method returns the previous element index or minus one if the list iterator is at the beginning of the list. Another method is the next index. This method returns the index number of the next element. And then we have the set method. So this actually replaces the last element returned by next or previous with a specified element. And the last method is add. And this method inserts the specified element into the list at the position before the element that would be returned by the next method. Okay, so a lot of information about iterator and list iterator. We'll do some practice and then you'll know how it works. So I want to create a new class called iterator. List iterator examples. And that'll be in the collections package. So why don't we try to understand iterator by making an example that goes like this. Let's create a list first. And then let's try to apply iterator methods on this particular list. So let's get started with creating an array list. Array list. Integer. Numbers. List. Equals. New array. List. Now I'm going to add elements to the list. But I want to add numbers from 1 to 50 to this list. Therefore, I'm just going to do this really quickly with the help of a loop. You can actually use any loop you want if you want to. Let's just fill this list in quickly with a while loop. So I'll first just create an int variable int I equals one. And now I'll create the while condition. This loop will continue while the I variable is less than 51. So in the loop body I'll write numbers list dot add I. And then lastly I'll just write the update statement I plus plus. So this way this loop will continue until the value of I is 51. When it reaches 51 the loop ends. Okay, so this way all numbers from 1 to 50 will be added into the numbers list in order. So outside the loop, let's just print the elements of this list. And let's test it. All right. So you can see the elements of the numbers list range from 1 to 50. All right. So now that that list is ready we can get our iterator going. So we'll do an example that goes like this I want to remove numbers that are not a multiple of three. So that is numbers that are not divisible by three from the list. And we'll get a new list that is only divisible by three right. So we're going to do this with the help of the iterator. And let's get started. Just create an iterator object. And the type of this iterator will be integer because our list is an integer list, right? So the name of the object can be iterator. So after the equal sign I'll write numbers list dot iterator. Now I'll create a while loop. Let's create the condition. So I'll write iterator and put a dot after putting a dot. We can see the methods of the iterator. Huh has next next and remove. I'm going to choose a Hasnext method. So this is basically meaning if there is another element in the next where the iterator can go. The condition will be true and the codes will write in the loop. Body will work, and since there is no more elements to go after the last element, the condition will be false and the loop will terminate. So now we can assign each element of the list to a new variable with the help of the next method of the iterator. Int each element equals iterator dot. Next. So in each iteration, the next element will be passed to the variable each element. All right. Now let's create the if condition. The condition will go like this. Each element modulus three is not equal to zero. So if an element is not a multiple of three, that is a number that is not divisible by three. We will remove that element from this list. And what will remain is a list consisting only of elements divisible by three, right? So in that if block, I'll remove the element that is not divisible by three. All right. So to remove the element I'll just need to use the remove method of the iterator. So I'll write iterator dot remove. And then finally we can print the last version of our list to the console just outside the loop. S out double quotes new numbers list equals plus numbers list. All right, let's go ahead and run the code and see what the output looks like. Well there you see my friends. And new elements of the numbers list are indeed multiples of three. So that's excellent. Now that's how you use iterator in Java. We could of course also do this using an iterator. But the ready made methods of the iterator interface allow us to do our job a whole lot easier and a lot faster too. So that's iterator. Let's now delve into this list iterator a little bit further. So we can use the same list for the list iterator. So let's say for example that we're going to use for the list iterator goes like this. First we'll obtain the index number of each element and print it to the console. Then we can convert the numbers that are not divisible by three into minus one. So you remember right? In the iterator example earlier, we removed elements that were not divisible by three from the list. But in this example we're going to try to replace them with minus one. So let's do all of these operations just by using the list iterator. So why don't we get started. Well first convert the codes that we wrote for the iterator into a comment line. Okay, let's create an object from the list iterator list iterator integer list. Iterator equals numbers. List dot list. iterator. Now we'll create a while loop and we'll write the condition. So I want to write list iterator put a dot and after that dot we can see the methods of the iterator add has. Next as previous next next index previous previous index. Remove and set. So you can see that the list iterator interface has more methods than the iterator interface just at first glance here. So from here, it's actually possible to understand that the list iterator is slightly more advanced in its structure. Okay, that's all. Let's continue. I want to choose the Hasnext method. Now here, let's print the index number of the elements with the help of the next index method of that list. Iterator s out list. Iterator dot. Next index. Now you can also, if you want, assign the index numbers to a new variable and call it here. Yeah let's do it together. Int indexes equals list iterator dot next index. So now I'll call the indexes variable in the print method. And also this will be the print method not println. By the way. So I want to show the index numbers side by side. And lastly I will add a space at the end of each index number. Okay. So now what we'll do is assign each element of the list to a new variable with the help of the next method of the list iterator. Int each element equals list iterator dot. Next. So in each iteration, the next element will be passed to the variable each element. You follow. So now let's create the if statement. If each element modulus three is not equal to zero, that means if the element is not a multiple of three, that is a number that is not divisible by three. This time we'll convert these elements to minus one. In the if block, I'll write list iterator dot set minus one. So elements that are not a multiple of three will now be changed to minus one. So let's print the new list to the console and I'll copy this print method. Paste it on in here. And last up I will use an empty println method before printing the elements of the list. Because we use the print method to print the index numbers in the loop. That is, the cursor is still on the same line. I'll use the println method here to move to the next line. Excellent. Now we can test the code. So there you see the output is the original version of our list. All right. So this output is the index number of the elements. And the last output is the last version of the list. Notice that all the numbers that are not a multiple of three have been changed to minus one. There you go my friends. So there's a bunch of examples using the iterator and the list iterator interface. It's a lot of fun. You can always make up some more if you want, but we do have another video to get to, so I'll see you in the next one.

=== 10. Set Interface - Part 1 ===
All right, all right. Hello, my friends, and welcome back. Here we've got another video and we've already talked about the list interface. Especially the ArrayList class works a charm now because we're done talking about the list interface. In this video we're going to talk about another interface in the collection framework. Get ready for the set interface. All right. So the set interface is a fundamental component of the Java.util package extending the collection interface. And it serves as an unordered collection of unique objects. So it actually enforces the principle of mathematical sets ensuring that duplicate values cannot be accommodated. So this interface is absolutely crucial for scenarios where a collection should contain only distinct elements. All right. So notably the set interface is implemented by classes such as Hashset and linked Hashset, and they offer various behaviours for managing collections. So the Hashset class, for instance, utilises hashing mechanisms for element storage, leading to an unpredictable insertion order based on hash codes. Notably, it permits the inclusion of null elements. Just keep that on your back burner. But in contrast, the linked Hashset class preserves the insertion order, enabling predictable iteration through elements as they're added. And then we've got the Treeset class, which implements the sorted set interface, which extends set providing ordered sets based on natural ordering or a custom comparator. So this ensures a sorted iteration of elements. Creating an object from the set interface is just like creating an object from the list interface. Since set is an interface, we cannot create an object directly from the set interface of course, so when we need the set interface, we use classes that implement it. All right. So that's enough of that information stuff. Let's get down to some practice with this set interface. So I want to create a new class called set interface example in the collections package. Okay. Now we're ready to create a set. So you can see here it is under the Java.util package like I told you. And I want to select this option, press enter. Now the type of this set will be string. The name of this instance will be animals set after the equal sign. I'll write new hash set. And you got to remember, since set is an interface, objects cannot be created from the set face directly. We always need that class that implements the set interface to create an object. All right. So let's add some elements to this set. To add an element to the set we'll use the add method again animal set dot add. Let the first element be cat. So I want to copy and paste this line five times. The second element will be dog. The third element will be cow. The fourth element will be lion. The fifth element will be ant. The last element will be dog again. Okay, now let's apply the useful methods of the collection interface to this set, shall we? So first I want to print the elements of the set. Right. S out double quotes. Animal set plus animal set. Second up I will print the size of the set S out. Double quotes. Size of animal set. Plus animal set. Dot size. So now I want to remove the element cow from the set animal set dot. Remove cow. And let's go ahead and print the elements again. Good. So after that I can use the contains method. And with the contains method we can search any elements in the set. So let's search for the element sheep. In this set S out double quotes contains sheep. After the plus sign all right animal set dot contains and inside the parentheses I'll write sheep. All right. Now we can go ahead and test the code out. So you can see the elements of the animal set in the first line. You got to notice that the dog element is printed only once. Remember that's the main purpose of the set interface, right? If you want to have only one of each element in your list, then the set interface will make your job go faster and much easier, of course. Also check this out. The size of the set is five and not six, and that's because the element dog is a duplicate and the set interface accepts only one of those elements. Dog. Have a look at the third row so we can see the new elements of the set. And you remember right we removed the cow element from the set. And finally we check to see whether the set contains the sheep element. That was by using the contains method. And yeah, the result is false. And that just means that that element does not exist in that set. So those are some of the basic methods that you can use with the set interface. Again you can multiply these examples. But I don't want to take too long doing that. But please get some practice on your own. But what I want to do is thanks for asking. Move on to a different subject so we can compare two different sets according to the elements that they contain. All right. So let's let's do a few examples of that. So here what I'll do is just well convert these lines to comment lines. So now I want to create two sets. The type of these sets will be integer. The name of the first set will be set one. Now let's add some elements to the set. Set one dot add ten. And now I want to duplicate this line six times. All right so let's change the elements. The second will be 12. The third will be 13. The fourth will be 17. The fifth will be 18. The sixth will be 16. And the last element? How about 14? All right. Good. So let's go ahead and print these elements s out. Double quotes. Set one equals plus set one. Now let's create the second set. So I want to copy and paste these lines. The name of the next set will be set two. So let's change the elements of the set first element. Yeah. Let's make it ten again. Second element will be 11. Third element will be 12. The son will be 15. Next element 13. How about 19? The last element will be 13 again. All right. The sets are ready. Now, I do want to talk about the comparisons that we can make here. So we can make three different comparisons. So first we can detect the common, that is the intersecting elements in both lists. This is actually known as intersection. So for this we can use the retain all method. All right. So the other method is we could actually do a new list that is a combination of the elements of both lists. So in that case intersecting and repeating elements will be printed only once. So this would be known as union operation. And for this we can use the add all method. And yeah there's another one here too. So we could find all the elements of one list that are different from the other list. For that, we could use the remove all method. All right. So why don't we go ahead and make these comparisons together. So that means first I want to create a new set. Set. Integer intersection set. Equals new hash set. All right. Now I want to give that set one as a constructor parameter of the hash set class. This way set one is assigned to the intersection set. All right. Now I want to use the retain all method. So I'll write intersection set dot retain all. And in parentheses I'll write set two. And lastly I want to print the element of the intersection set onto the console. S out double quotes. Intersection set. Equals plus intersection set. Okay, so let's run it and see. First output is the elements of set one. The second output is the elements of set two. So on the third output the common elements in both lists are printed with the help of that retain all method. Excellent. Let's go ahead and have a look at the union operation. So I just want to copy these codes. Paste them in here and this will be Union. So the name of the set will be Union set. And this method will be union set at all. This will be the union elements. And this will be the union set. All right, let's run it and have a look. There you go. You can see the union set, which consists of the elements of both sets on the console. But notice though that each element is only printed once. So last up, let's have a look at the elements of set one that are different from set two. So for that I'll copy these codes paste them in here. The name of the set will be difference of set one from set two. And this method will be difference of set one from set two dot. remove all and this will be elements of set one different from set two. And of course this will be the difference of set one from set two. All right let's have a look at the difference. And there you go my friends. You can see the difference of set one from set two is printed on the console. So that's how this set interface works. Why don't we go ahead and take a short break and digest all that? When we come back though, in the next video, we're going to do a few examples of classes that implement the set interface. All right, stick around I'll see you in part two of Set Interface. See you then.

=== 11. Set Interface - Part 2 ===
Yes, indeed, my friends, here we are in. Hello. So we started the set interface in the previous video. So that means in this video we're going to talk about hash set, linked hash set and the tree set classes that implement this set interface. Okay. Now just to sort of briefly explain what's going on here. The hash set class doesn't actually guarantee storing elements in the order of insertion. However, linked hash set stores the elements in order of insertion. So the main feature of the tree set class is that it sorts the added elements from smallest to largest, or alphabetically. So that is how the tree set class differs from the other classes. Right now. A common feature of all of them is that they do not store duplicate values. All right. So that's enough of that intro stuff. Let's get some practice under our belts. So I want to continue, just like we were doing in the previous video. So I want to convert these lines to comment lines. Now let's first make some examples and we'll start with the Hashset class. Yeah there's a peculiarity of the Hashset that is well it only considers one of the same elements, but it doesn't guarantee that the list elements are stored in the same order. So the first element that you add to the list might actually not even be at the beginning of the list. So let's see what happens. I'll create a Hashset. And the type of this set will be string. The name of the object will be cars hash set. And after the equal sign, I'll write new Hashset. Now we can add some elements to this set. So cars hash set dot add. First element will be Mercedes. So I'll copy this line. Paste it below seven times. The second element will be BMW. The third and the fourth elements can be Ferrari. And the fifth element will be Ford. The sixth and seventh elements can be Opel. And the last element let's make that Honda. So now let's go ahead and print the hash set S out. Double quotes cars. Hash set. Equals plus cars hashset. Now let's run the code and observe. So you got to notice that the elements of the list did not maintain the order that we added them in. Right. So this is of course a distinguishing feature of hash set. Also the Ferrari and the Opel were printed only once. This is also a feature coming from that set interface. So as a result, the thing to keep in mind for the hash set is that it stores element in a hash, not the order in which you add them. All right. So that's how Hashset class works. Let's have a look at how useful linked hash set can be. So what I'll do is I'll add a title to separate the codes of each class. All right. So we're going to continue. The linked hash set maintains insertion order. So this class actually contains unique elements like other classes that implement the set interface. Also it provides all the optional set operations and permits null elements. Mm. Sounds like fun. So let's make an example. So I want to copy these codes paste them here. And the class name will be linked hash set. The name of the object will be cars linked hash set. Also I want to change these object names. And then lastly this will also be the cars linked hash set. Now let's run that and see what happens. Yeah. So you see, this time the insertion order of the elements was not changed. Also again the duplicate elements are printed only once. So now you see the benefits of using linked asset. All right. Let's have a look at the tree set class. So the feature of the tree set class remember is that it sorts the elements from smallest to largest or alphabetically. There are also different methods that we can use in the tree set class though. But for now let's make. Yeah let's make a few examples actually. So I'll create a tree set object. Now let's specify the elements of this set. Chars dot add p. So I'll copy and paste this line nine times. The second element will be L. Third element will be r. Fourth will be w. Fifth will be w. Again the sixth element will be n. Seventh element be eighth element t. Ninth element. Let's make that t again. Last element. How about a. All right. So that set's ready. Now let's employ some of the useful methods of the tree set shall we. So first I want to print the elements in descending order. S out. Double quotes. Descending. Equals plus chars. Descending. Set. Now let's print the elements of the chars set. S out. Double quotes. Chars equals plus chars. Now let's print the elements before the character n. S out double quotes. Headset equals plus chars dot headset. So now there are actually two types of this headset method. The method with one parameter returns the group of elements that are less than the specified element, and the method that wants two parameters returns the group of elements that are less than or equal to the specified element. Okay, so let's say I want to print the elements before the character n. All I do is write n in parentheses. Or you can add the second boolean parameter. False. So if you set the second parameter to true this time the element n will also be printed. Okay. So let's go ahead and print the elements from L to T. As out. Double quotes subset. Equals plus chars dot subset. So the subset method returns a set of elements that lie between the given range, which includes from element and excludes two element. So I'll want to print the elements from L to T so I can write l true t false. You can also write it like that. L and T. Now if you do write it like that, it includes L, but not T. Subtle difference. Huh? All right, let's continue. So now I want to print the elements from N all the way through to the last element. So double quotes tail set equals plus chars dot tail set n. So if I write the second parameter to be false this time the element n will not be printed on the console. Also, we could print the first and last elements directly to the console. So double quotes first element Equals plus chars dot first. S out double quotes. Last element equals plus chars dot last. We could also use the pole first and pole last. Methods for retrieving and removing the first and last elements. S out double quotes. Removed the first element. Equals plus chars dot pole first. S out. Double quotes removed the last element. Equals plus chars. Dot pole. Last. And finally, let's print the last version of the chars set. Okay, now we can sit back and run and observe the output. So here you see the elements are printed first in descending alphabetical order because we use the descending method first. Then we printed the chars set. And you can see it's printed in ascending alphabetical order this time. Note that we're not doing any sorting here. The tree set did this automatically. So that's a great feature of the tree set class. And it's also printed the same element only once like the other set classes. Then what did we do. Oh yeah. We printed the elements before character N with a headset method. Then we printed the elements from character L to character T with a subset method, and then with the tail set method, we printed the elements from character n to the last element on the console, and then with the first and last methods, we printed the current first and the last element of the set. And then finally we printed the first and last elements in the set with the pole first and pole last methods. Also, the first and last elements are deleted from the set. So if we do have a look at the final version of the char set, we can see the first and the last elements are removed. Okay, so that's how you work with the Treeset class. So we've used the set interface and the classes that implement the set interface. Very useful. So why don't we take a short break and we'll meet back in the next video. I'll see you then.

=== 12. Queue ===
All right. Hello my friends. So we are continuing our work on the collection framework. So far we've covered the list and the set interfaces. So what are we in this video? Talk about another interface that extends a collection interface. It's called the queue interface. So the queue interface of course is present in the Java.util package and extends the collection interface. Now this is used to hold the elements about to be processed in the Fifo. First in first out order. It is an ordered list of objects with its use limited to inserting elements at the end of the list and deleting elements from the start of the list. That means it follows the Fifo or the first in first out principle. All right. Now, since the queue is an interface, we cannot directly create an object, right? So for this we'll use classes that implement this interface. Now, the two most frequently used classes when creating objects from this class are priority Queue and linked List classes. The linked list class directly implements the dequeue interface, since dequeue interface actually extends the queue interface. The link class automatically becomes a subclass of the queue interface. All right, that's enough of that. Let's get down to some practice with our queue interface. So what we'll do first is create a new class named queue interface example in the collection package. So now let's create an instance of the queue interface. Now here you can see it is under the Java.util package and I'll choose this option. Press enter and the type of this queue will be string. Name of the instance will be Carrs-q. Now since the queue is an interface, objects cannot be created in the type queue. So we always need a class that implements this interface to create an object. So the two most frequently used classes when creating objects from this class are priority queue and linked list. So let's start with link list. All right. So after the equal sign I'll write new linked list. All right. Now let's add some elements to the queue cars. Queue add Mercedes. Cars. Queue dot offer Ferrari. So the offer and the add methods. Add the elements to the queue. So the difference is that if an error occurs during the addition process and the element cannot be added to the queue, the add method will throw an error and the application will crash. However, the offer method returns the null value, preventing the application from crashing. You follow. So I've used both here to show you the difference, but when we're working with the queue, normally I prefer the offer method. All right, let's go ahead and continue. Cars. Short offer. Ford. Cars. Short offer BMW. Cars. Cue. Dot. Offer. Opel. Okay, so now let's print the elements of this q s out double quotes cars Q equals. Plus cars Q and I will print the size of the cars q s out double quotes size equals plus cars q dot size. And let's go ahead and print the first element of the q s out. Double quotes. The first element equals plus cars q dot element. Also, we could use the peak method for retrieving the first element. So I want to copy this line and paste it once. And this method will be peak. The element and peak methods also return the first element in the queue. But the difference though is again related to throwing an error if there is no element to return the element method throws an exception, but the peek method does not throw an exception. It returns null. Excellent. So now let's remove an element from the queue and observe the removed element on the console. S out double quotes removed element equals plus cars dot poll. So you can also use the remove method to delete an element from the queue. But if there is no element to remove, the remove method throws an exception and the app crashes, but the poll method returns the null value. So let's go ahead and use the remove method as well and you'll see. And I'll print the last version of the queue after the poll and remove methods. So I'll copy this line and paste it after the poll method and after the remove method. Also, I'll print the size of the queue after printing the elements. All right. So now we can go ahead and test the code. Yeah. So here you see the elements have been successfully added to the queue with both Add and the offer methods. Now currently the size of the queue is five. The first element in the queue is Mercedes of course. So we've successfully printed the first element to the console using both the element and the peek methods. Then we deleted an element from the queue with a pull method. But did you notice the deleted element is the first element in the queue? Mercedes. So in other words, in the queue interface, the elements are deleted from the queue in the order in which they were added to the queue. Yeah, that's Fifo working for you. First in, first out. It's a rule. It always applies. Remember that. And in this line you can see the new elements of the queue. Now the first element in the queue is Ferrari. And the size of the queue is now four. And again we deleted an element from the queue with a remove method. I'm sure you noticed the first element has been deleted again. As a result, regardless of whether you use the pole or remove methods, deletion occurs in the order of insertion. Boom. So in other words, since the first element added after Mercedes was Ferrari, this time the Ferrari element was removed from the queue. so you got to remember this principle when you're working with a Q interface Fifo, not FIFA. Fifo first in, first out. Boom. Principles. Okay. And of course you can see the final version of the queue. It sizes now three. So I really hope you understand the Fifo rule better. Let's just comment out these lines where we've done all that deletion and test the order in which the elements will be deleted from the queue with a for loop. So first I want to assign the size of this queue to a variable. Int size equals cars q dot size. Now let's go ahead and create a for loop For int I equals zero, the condition will be eyeing less than the size and the update statement will be i++. Now if there is an element in the queue, I will delete the element with the pull method and print the deleted element to the console. So in the loop I'll write s out double quotes removed element equals plus cars q dot pole. So this loop is going to continue until all the elements in the queue are deleted. Because our condition here is I less than the size right. So the size is five. But if you write cars q dot size here directly, since the size of the queue will decrease with each iteration. The condition here will be false before all the elements are deleted, right? That's why therefore you need to write the initial size of the queue here. If all elements in the queue are deleted, then the queue will be empty and the condition here will be false. So in this case the loop will terminate. Okay, so in each loop we will observe the removed element in the console. Now lastly outside the loop let's print that last version of the queue. All right. Now we're done. So let's test it out. Here you go. You can see now first the Mercedes gets deleted, then Ferrari, then Ford, then BMW and lastly Opel. Now you got to notice the element which is first added is first removed from the queue. That's Fifo for you. First in first out. So now the queue is empty. Why don't we try to retrieve the first element and delete an element from the queue somewhere else. So let me just copy the peak method, paste it in here and let's run that again. So there you see that the app does not crash right because the null value gets returned. Now let's use the element method instead. Right. So you can see this time the no such element exception gets thrown. And we know why. So that's quickly the difference between element and peak methods. Why don't we just add a comment. Now remember that poll method. Let's go ahead and test it out. And run it and see what happens. So there you see the app again does not crash. The null value gets returned. All right. Why don't we try out the remove method instead. All right so there you see the no such element exception is thrown again. And that, my friends, is the difference between remove and pole. Let's add a comment again. So my friends we've been working with the queue interface. Did some good examples there. So what you do need to keep in mind though, when you want to delete elements from the queue interface, remember the elements will be deleted according to the order of insertion Fifo. First in, first out. It's a principle. I didn't make this up. All right, why don't we go ahead and take a short break, and I'll see you back here in the next video.

=== 13. Deque ===
All right, all right, my friends. Thanks for coming back. So we've already examined the queue interface previous video. So that means in this one, what we'll do is examine the queue interface. It's a subtype of the queue interface, but it has its own personality. All right Dick, it's actually known as the abbreviation of double ended queue. So it basically means that we can add or remove elements from both ends of the data set. But you have to keep in mind something both the Fifo, Fifo first in, first out, and the LIFO that would be last in first out principles both apply here. So this interface is also found in the Java.util package. And when we want to create an instance of this interface we can use a classes that implement this interface. You know the drill. The most frequently used classes in this context are array Arraydeque and linked list classes. So that's enough for the information about dequeue. Let's do some practice and you'll understand what's going on. So I want to create a new class named Dequeue interface example. And that's in the collection package. Let's first create an instance of the dequeue interface. Now you can see it's under the Java.util package. That's no surprise. So I'll choose this option. Press enter. Now the type of this dequeue will be string. The name will be Carrs-q. So since dequeue is an interface we cannot create an object directly. We'll need a class that implements this interface to create an object. So I want to use the linked list class. All right. after the equal sign, I can write new linked list. Now let's add three elements to this queue. Cars dcad Mercedes. I'll duplicate this line a couple of times. And the second element will be BMW. And we'll change the last element to be Ferrari. Okay, so let's print this queue to the console. S out double quotes. Cars DQ equals plus cars DQ. All right. You ready to check it out? Let's run it and see. So there you see it's added the elements back to back as it should normally. In other words, the add method adds the element given as a parameter to the end of the list. Right? Because you remember, we said that the most important feature that distinguishes DQ from other interfaces, is we can add and remove elements from both ends of the queue. So how's this really working? Let's add one more element to the queue. But this time I want to add it as the first element of the queue. So cars dq dot add first Ford. And we can add an element to the beginning of the queue with the add first method. So let's run that and see. Yeah. There you see the element Ford has been added to the beginning of the list. You want to add another element to the end of the queue. Why not. Cars dot add last. Opal. And we can add an element to the end of the queue with the add last method. Let's run that and see. And there you see the element opal has been added to the end of the queue. Why don't we add one more element to the beginning of the queue? Cars. push. Honda. So we can also add an element to the beginning of the list with the push method as you're seeing. Let's run it and see. Yeah. So the element Honda has now been added to the beginning of the list. So we can add another element to the end of the queue. Why not. Cars dot offer. Hyundai a Sunday. And we can also add an element to the end of the queue with the offer method. So let's go ahead and run the application again. There you see the element Hyundai has been added to the end of the list. So I do want to add one more element to the beginning of the queue with another method. You ready cars DK dot offer first. Kia. And we can also add an element to the beginning of the queue with the offer first method. All right, let's run that and see what happens. There you see the element key has now been added to the beginning of the queue. I do want to add one more element to the end of the queue with another method. Are you ready? Cars DHCP offer last. Renew. Some people say Renault. Anyway, we can also add an element to the end of the queue with the offer. Last method. Yes. So let's run that and see. And there you can see the element Renault has been added to the end of the list Renault. Okay. So now you see how it's possible to add elements to both the beginning and the end of the queue should you need to. Why don't we go ahead and delete elements from both the beginning and the end of the queue while we're at it? S out. Double quotes removed Mood element. Equals plus cars DQ dot. Remove. First. We can delete an element from the beginning of the queue as well with a remove first method. And also thanks to using this line we'll be able to see the deleted element on the console. Yeah let's see. So I'll print the last version of the list and I'll copy this line. Paste it here. All right let's run that and see there you see the deleted element is Kia. Also we can remove the last element. Now let's see that in action. So I'll copy these two lines paste them in here. And this method will be remove last. Let's test it out. There you go. This time the element régnault is removed from the queue. All right. That's how the DQ interface works. Again, you got to keep in mind that you can add elements to the beginning and the end of the queue, or delete elements from the beginning and the end of the queue with a DQ interface. This feature also provides flexibility and some operations. But remember first in, first out Fifo LIFO last in, first out. Otherwise it's confusing. So my friends, guess what? We have now finalized a collection framework. Yeah, I know there's also the map interface, which is kind of sort of thought of as a collection, even though it is outside of the collection framework. So in order to figure that one out, let's take a short break here, and we'll come back in the next video and start working on that map interface. All right. See you next time.

=== 14. Map Interface - Part 1 ===
Well, my friends, here we are. We've come a long way since we started. Huh? Good job. So far we've talked about the collection framework and the interfaces that are the core elements of this framework. And our previous video. We actually finalized the collection framework. So that means in this video we're going to cover the map interface in really good detail. The map interface is actually thought to be an element of the collection framework. However, really and truly URL, the map interface is separate from the collection framework. All right. You got to remember that. So then why what's going on? What is this map interface. Come on. What are you hiding from me? Yeah. No secret map interface is available in the Java.util package. It represents the mapping between a key and a value, though. So what distinguishes map from other collections is that we can store the elements in lists as key value pairs. Repairs. Boom! Very important. So three classes implement the map interface HashMap, linked HashMap and Treemap. Cool. Let's have a look at the declaration and the initialization of a map. So you've got to really. Hey, open your eyes. Check it out. So since the map is an interface, we cannot directly create an instance of the map interface. So to create an object, we always need a class that implements the map interface. So in the example here we're using the HashMap class. We will need to write two different data types between the diamond symbols. So the first data type represents the type of key we'll need to add to the list. The second data type here represents a type of value of the element that we will add to the list. So in our example here the type of the key is string. The type of the value is integer. Excellent. We'll also use the put method to add data to the map. The put method takes two parameters. The first parameter is key, the second parameter is value. And looking at this example even closer, let's assume that this is a car map, and we store the car brand in the price information and accordingly the key is Ferrari and the value it hides is 20,000. Now why don't we see how to print the elements of a map to the console? So in order to print a value of the key in the map, what we'll do is use the get method of the map interface. The get method simply takes the key as a parameter, and in our example, we use Ferrari as the key to print the value 20,000 to the console. So that's a whole lot of theory. Why don't we do the practice? So what I'll do is first create a new project for the map interface. We'll just name the project map interface. Other options will be the same as the previous project. So without changing anything, I'll just click the create button. Now I want to create a new package in class in this project. The package name should be Map interface. And the class name should be map Interface. Example. Okay, so here's where I will create a map. Now as you can see it is under the Java.util package. So I'll choose this option. Press enter. So now we got to specify the type of the key and the value in the diamond symbols. And we'll let the type of this key be string. The type of the value will be integer, and the name of the reference will be cars map. Since the map is an interface to create an object, we need a class that implements the map interface. So for this example we can just use the HashMap class. So after the equal sign I'll write new HashMap. Now I want to add some elements to this map. So to add an element just use the put method of the map interface. So that means I'll write cars map put and the put method will take two parameters. The first one is key, so I'll write Mercedes. The second parameter will be the value. So I'll write the price of the Mercedes 40,000. We'll call it. And I'll duplicate this line four times. The second element will be Ferrari and its price will be 35,000. Yeah. Oh, but it's in mint condition, by the way. So the third element will be BMW. Its price will be 30,000. The fourth element will be BMW again. We're going to lower that price to 25,000. And the last element will be Ford and its price will be 20,000. Okay. So now our map is ready. What we'll do is first print the elements of the map to the console. And that'll mean we'll write s out double quotes. Cars map. Equals plus cars map. So after that, let's print the price of the BMW s out. Double quotes price of BMW equals plus cars map dot get. Okay. Just stick with me. To obtain the value of a specific key, we use the get method of the map interface. Right takes this key as the parameter. So I write BMW in parentheses because I want to learn the price of the BMW right. Well let's test it out. All right. So here we see the elements of the map. And I wonder if you noticed it stores the data by mapping the key value. Okay. So each key corresponds to a value. Yes. Now I also try to add two values using the BMW key. But it only added the second value. So in other words the map class contains only one key value. Another point that you got to pay attention to is the HashMap class. Just like the Hashset class doesn't guarantee that the elements will preserve their insertion order. So this just means that the elements that you add may not be stored in the order in which you add them, right? You do remember we kind of had a similar situation in the Hashset class. Just keep it in mind. So in the second row there's the printed price of the BMW. So now we need to have a little chat about this key set method and Map.entry interface. This is what we use when we're working with the map interface. And these actually allow us to access the data with a loop. Very useful that. So let's use the key set method first and you'll see how it works. So I'll first create a for loop for string car colon cars map. Dot key set. So this way in each iteration the keys in the map will assign the car object. Then we can get the values using this key. So in the loop I'll write s out double quotes price of plus car. Plus double quotes is plus cars map dot get car. Now let's have a look at the output. So there you see we were able to access the key and the value parameters in the map with the key set method. But more precisely the key set method gives us the keys. And we were able to access the value corresponding to each key by using these keys. Now you get it. But also we can access the keys and values using the map dot entry interface. Don't let's forget that one. So let's go ahead and see how that works. So I'll just convert this for loop to a comment line. So now I'll create a for each loop. So in parentheses I can write map.entry. So entry is an interface defined within the map interface. It provides certain methods to access the well entry in the map, and by gaining access to the entry of the map, we can easily manipulate them. So the entry interface will also ask us for a key and value type keys. Type will be string. The values type will also be integer of course. Now let's name the object map entry. So after the colon I'll write cars map dot entry set. And now I can access the keys and values using the map entry object. And I'll copy the print method that we wrote earlier in the first for loop and paste it into this loop. So first we'll get the key and we can actually get the key just by typing Map.entry dot get key. And for the value, I'll write map Entry.getvalue. Now let's observe the output. All right my friends. Look at that. We can now see the keys and the values. So far so good. Yeah. But also we can remove or alter an element. Yeah. So first let's go ahead and remove an element from the map. I'm going to remove Ford cars map dot. Remove Ford. Now I want to alter the value of a key. Okay. So for example let's change the price of the Mercedes cars map dot replace. So to change the value of the key we can use the replace method. The replace method will take two parameters. The first one is the key. So all right Mercedes. The second parameter is the new value. So I'll write 45,000 and I'll print the last version of the map. So I'll copy this line paste it here. Oh also I'll convert this line to a comment line. There you go. Let's test it out now. So there you see the element Ford has been removed from the map. Also the price of the Mercedes has changed. All right. So that is pretty much the intended use of the map interface. And we also did you one better. I showed you how to access keys and values defined in a map. So why don't we just take a short break here. And when we come back, we're going to make some examples of the classes that implement the map interface. All right. Stick around I'll see you in the next video.

=== 15. Map Interface - Part 2 ===
Well, check it out my friends. Here we are in the next video already. So we covered some of the early stuff of the map interface previously. So in this video let's talk about hash map, linked hash map and the tree map classes. And these will implement the map interface as well. How about a brief introduction first. What do you say? Sure enough, the hash map class does not guarantee storing elements in the order of insertion. Sounds familiar? However, the linked hash map does store elements in the order of insertion. Okay, so the main feature of the tree map class, though, is that it sorts the added elements from smallest to largest, or even alphabetically according to the keys. So yeah, you remember that's pretty much how the tree map class differs from the other classes. The common feature of all of them, though, is that they do not store duplicate values. All right, that's enough talk. Let's do some practice. So I want to use the same Java class that we created in the previous video. So that means I'll convert all the codes that we wrote in the previous video to the comment line. Now we can first make an example of the HashMap class. So I'll create a HashMap and I will store some people and their ages in this map. See this way the the type of the key will be string. All right. The type of the value will be integer and we'll name the object ages map. So after the equal sign I'll write new HashMap. Now let's add some elements to this map. Ages. Map dot put. So the key will be Alex. The age of Alex will be 40. And now I'll duplicate this line four times. The second key will be James, and the value will be 20. Third key will be James again. And the value will be 30. Fourth key will be Ronaldo. And the value will be 35. Last key will be Mary and the value will be 25. Okay, let's print the map. So let's run the code and see what happens. So you got to notice here that the elements of the map did not maintain the order in which we added them. That's first out the gate. Of course this is a distinguishing feature of the hash map also You see, James was only printed once. So as a result, the thing to keep in mind here for the hash map is that it stores elements in a hash, not in the order in which you add them. Okay. That's the hash map class. Let's have a look at the linked hash map. So I'll convert all of these codes to the comment line. So the feature that distinguishes linked hash map from hash map is that it preserves the insertion order of the added elements. So we'll now create a linked hash map and see how that works. So we'll keep some car models and colors on this map. So the type of the key and the value will be string. And we'll let the name of the object be colors map. So after the equal sign I'll write new linked hash map. And now it's time to add some elements colors, map dot put. The key will be BMW. Its color will be blue. And I'll copy and paste this line four times. The second key will be opal and the value will be green. Third key will be Ferrari and the value will of course be red. The fourth key will be Ferrari again. Let's make it white. And the last key will be Mercedes. And the value will be black. So we'll print the map. Let's run the code and see what happens. So there you see, this time the insertion order, the elements was not changed. That, of course, is the distinguishing feature of linked hash map. So again the duplicate elements are not printed. If it finds a duplicate it only prints one of them. All right. So that is linked hash map. What have we got next. Ah the tree map class. So that means I'll create a tree map. So for this map I want to store the telephone country codes. So for the type of key we'll put integer. The type of the value will be string. And we'll name the object phone codes. Okay. So after the equal sign, I'll write new treemap. And I'll add some elements to this map using the put method again. The key will be 90. Let's make this value turkey. And I'll copy and paste this line six times. The second key will be 44. And the value will be United Kingdom. The third key will be 33. And the value will be France. So the fourth key 49. And that value will be Germany. The fifth key will be 20. The value will be Egypt. The sixth key will be 49 again. And let's make that value. Germany. Last key will be 91, and the value will be India. Okay. Let's go ahead and print this map to the console. Let's run it and see what it looks like. All right. So the first thing you should notice here is that the data is sorted by key value from smallest to largest. And that's of course the main difference between the tree map class and the other map classes. And again notice that only one of the same two elements gets printed. Now of course we want to. We could also list the keys from largest to smallest. So I'll copy and paste this line. and this will be descending map. This will be phone codes. Dot descending map. So this method will print the keys along with their values. And the ordering of the keys is from largest to smallest. So we'll run it and see. And there you see the keys and their values are printed on the console. And the order of the keys is from largest to smallest. So apart from this, if we wanted to, we could print only the keys in descending order. So why don't I copy and paste this line and this will be descending key set. This will be phone codes dot descending key set. So this method only prints the keys. And the order of the keys will be from largest to smallest. Let's run it and make sure. Well, there you go. Only the keys are printed on the console, and the order of the keys is from largest to smallest, as expected. All right, so, my friends, there you go. That is basic distinguishing features of hash map, linked hash map, and the tree map classes. And these all implement the map interface. Now additionally, you could also apply the remove and replace methods that we learned in the previous video. You can apply those for the map interface as well. You can also access the keys and the values of the map one at a time, by using the key set method or the map dot entry interface with a loop. In fact, that's a really good idea. Why don't we do a short example about that before we wrap it up? So I want to convert these two lines to the comment line. All right. Now let's remove the phone code of the yeah of the UK. So to do this let's use the remove method again phone code dot remove and in parentheses I will write the key of the value which I want to remove. And since I want to remove the phone code of the United Kingdom, I'll write its key and that is 44. So let's print the last version of the map using the entry interface for map entry. The type of the key will be integer. The type of the value will be string and the object name will be phone code entry. Now after a colon, I'll write phone codes dot entry set. And now I'll print the keys and values in the loop. S out phone code entry dot. Get key. In double quotes I'll write is phone code of the. After plus sign. Write phone code Entry.getvalue. Okay, let's run it and see it. There you see, we access the keys and their values using the entry interface. You can do it too, if you didn't already. You can also use the key set method instead. But you also got to note that the United Kingdom has been removed from the list, right? As expected. So my friends, these are the basic features and how you use the map interface as well as the classes that implement this interface. So now we have actually finalized what they call the collection framework and the map interface. Of course, it's going to be very useful for you going forward as you continue programming and writing code. What we'll do though is before we meet in the next video, take a quick break. All right. See you next time.
